Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), are forward looking statements that represent our beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. Forward looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, we do not know if these expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward looking statements, and we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) which include, but are not limited to: the cyclicality of the commercial aerospace industry; the performance of aerospace manufacturers and us under our long term agreements; the existence or renewal of certain long term agreements; the difficulty in forecasting demand for titanium products; global economic and political conditions; global productive capacity for titanium; changes in product pricing and costs; the impact of long term contracts with vendors on our ability to reduce or increase supply; the possibility of labor disruptions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; fluctuations in the market price of marketable securities; uncertainties associated with new product or new market development; the availability of raw materials and services; changes in raw material prices and other operating costs (including energy costs); possible disruption of business or increases in the cost of doing business resulting from terrorist activities or global conflicts; competitive products and strategies; and other risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. 1 PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS General. Titanium Metals Corporation is one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted and mill products. We are the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium consumption. We are currently the largest U.S. producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, and a major recycler of titanium scrap. Titanium Metals Corporaton was formed in 1950 and was incorporated in Delaware in 1955. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to we, us or our refer to TIMET and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Titanium was first manufactured for commercial use in the 1950s. Titaniums unique combination of corrosion resistance, elevated temperature performance and high strength to weight ratio makes it particularly desirable for use in commercial and military aerospace applications where these qualities satisfy essential design requirements for certain critical parts such as wing supports and jet engine components. While aerospace applications have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the worldwide demand for titanium, other end use applications for titanium in military and industrial markets have continued to develop, including the use of titanium based alloys in armor plating, structural components, chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Demand for titanium is also increasing in emerging markets with diverse uses including oil and gas production installations, automotive, geothermal facilities and architectural applications. Our products include titanium sponge, melted products, mill products and industrial fabrications. The titanium industry is comprised of several manufacturers that, like us, produce a relatively complete range of titanium products and a significant number of producers worldwide that manufacture a limited range of titanium mill products. Our long term strategy is to maximize the value of our core aerospace business while expanding our presence in non aerospace markets and developing new applications and products. Over the past three years, we used our operating cash flow and capital resources to fund completion of the expansion of our productive capacity. The expansion of our existing productive capacity and the availability of our secure third party conversion capabilities allow us to respond to the industrys demand volatility. As the titanium industry progresses through its demand cycle, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to strategically expand our existing production and conversion capacities through internal expansion and long term third party arrangements, as well as potential joint ventures and acquisitions. Titanium industry. We develop certain industry estimates based on our extensive experience within the titanium industry as well as information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). We estimate we accounted for approximately 16% of 2007 and 15% of 2008 worldwide industry shipments of titanium mill products and approximately 6% of worldwide titanium sponge production in each of 2007 and 2008. The following chart illustrates our estimates of aggregate industry mill product shipments over the past ten years: Industry Mill Product Shipments by Sector (Volumes Exclude Shipments within China and Russia) The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in titanium mill product shipment volume. Over the past 30 years, the titanium industry has had various cyclical peaks and troughs in mill product shipments. Since 1999, titanium mill product demand in the military, industrial and emerging market sectors has increased, primarily due to the continued development of innovative uses for titanium products in these industries. Over the last several years we, and the industry as a whole, have experienced significantly increased demand with periods of increased volatility. We estimate that industry shipments approximated 89,000 metric tons in 2007 and 102,000 metric tons in 2008, with each year setting a new industry shipment record. The estimated 15% growth in 2008 was supported by continued strength in the commercial aerospace sector and growth in the industrial sector. However, we currently expect 2009 total industry mill product shipments to decrease by approximately 15% to 25%, driven by anticipated reductions in the commercial aerospace and industrial sectors. 2 Commercial aerospace sector Demand for titanium products within the commercial aerospace sector is derived from both jet engine components (e.g., blades, discs, rings and engine cases) and airframe components (e.g., bulkheads, tail sections, landing gear, wing supports and fasteners). The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers. While industry shipments increased approximately 15% in 2008 due in part to strength in the commercial aerospace sector, demand from the commercial aerospace sector is expected to be negatively impacted in 2009 by (i) revisions and push outs of production schedules for the Boeing 787, (ii) adjustments and delays in certain other commercial aircraft build out schedules and (iii) Boeings labor dispute, which lasted approximately eight weeks and ended in November 2008. These factors are expected to continue to negatively impact demand until uncertainties within the commercial aerospace production cycle are resolved and demand is stabilized on a longer term basis. Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, and our business cycle generally correlates to this timeline, although the actual timeline can vary considerably depending on the titanium product. Our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. We shipped approximately 65% of our mill products to the commercial aerospace sector in 2008, whereas we estimate approximately 46% of the overall titanium industrys mill products were shipped to the commercial aerospace sector in 2008. The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, traditionally issues worldwide forecasts each January and July for commercial aircraft deliveries, approximately one third of which are expected to be required by the U.S. over the next 20 years. The Airline Monitors most recently issued forecast (January 2009) estimates deliveries of large commercial aircraft (aircraft with over 100 seats) totaled 944 (including 172 twin aisle aircraft which require more titanium) in 2008, and the following table summarizes the forecasted deliveries of large commercial aircraft over the next five years: Forecasted deliveries % increase (decrease) over previous year Year Total Twin aisle Total Twin aisle 2009 1,002 187 6 % 9 % 2010 828 243 (17 %) 30 % 2011 885 285 7 % 17 % 2012 1,005 310 14 % 9 % 2013 1,105 365 10 % 18 % The latest forecast from The Airline Monitor reflects a 16% decrease in forecasted deliveries over the next five years compared to the July 2008 forecast, mainly due to The Airline Monitors expectation that airlines will delay or cancel existing orders due to general economic conditions and revisions of production schedules for the Boeing 787. Boeing and Airbus booked orders for 1,561 planes in 2008, a decrease from the record bookings in 2005 through 2007, and The Airline Monitor forecasts that aggregate new orders in 2009 will be lower than 2008. The strong bookings in 2005 through 2008 have increased the order backlog for both Boeing and Airbus, which will be delivered over the next several years. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of airlines can result in rescheduling or cancellation of orders. Accordingly, aircraft manufacturer backlogs are not necessarily a reliable indicator of near term business activity, but may be indicative of potential business levels over a longer term horizon. The latest forecast from The Airline Monitor estimates increases for firm order backlog for both Airbus and Boeing. Airbus firm order backlog is estimated at 1,117 twin aisle planes and 2,598 single aisle planes, and Boeings firm order backlog is estimated at 1,375 twin aisle planes and 2,304 single aisle planes. Boeing does not plan to increase their build rates to make up for aircraft not delivered due to the strike, and Boeing has announced that the most recent delay of the 787 will postpone the first customer aircraft delivery until 2010. At year end 2008, a total of 198 firm orders had been placed for the Airbus A380, a program officially launched in 2000 with its first delivery in October 2007. Additionally, at year end 2008, a total of 910 firm orders have been placed for the Boeing 787, a program officially launched in April 2004, with anticipated first deliveries in 2010. The 787 will contain more composite materials than other Boeing aircraft. In early years of the manufacturing cycle for the Boeing 787, and any aircraft model, we believe additional titanium will be required to produce each aircraft, and as the program reaches maturity, less titanium will be required for each aircraft manufactured. During 2006, Airbus officially launched the A350 XWB program, which is a major derivative of the Airbus A330, with first deliveries scheduled for 2012/2013. As of December 31, 2008, a total of 483 firm orders had been placed for the A350 XWB. These A350 XWBs will use composite materials and new engines similar to those used on the Boeing 787 and are expected to require significantly more titanium as compared with earlier Airbus models. However, the final titanium buy weight may change as the A350 XWB is still in the design phase. Twin aisle planes (e.g., Boeing 747, 767, 777 and 787 and Airbus A330, A340, A350 and A380) tend to use a higher percentage of titanium in their airframes, engines and parts than single aisle planes (e.g., Boeing 737 and 757 and Airbus A318, A319 and A320), and new generation models require a significantly higher percentage of titanium. Additionally, Boeing generally uses a higher percentage of titanium in its airframes than Airbus. Based on information we receive from airframe and engine manufacturers and other industry sources, we estimate approximately 18 metric tons of titanium products are required to manufacture each Boeing 737, approximately 76 metric tons are required to manufacture each Boeing 747, approximately 59 metric tons are required to manufacture each Boeing 777 and approximately 134 metric tons will be required to manufacture each Boeing 787, including both the airframes and engines. Additionally, based on these same sources, we estimate approximately 12 metric tons of titanium products are required to manufacture each Airbus A320, approximately 18 metric tons are required to manufacture each Airbus A330, approximately 32 metric tons are required to manufacture each Airbus A340, approximately 74 metric tons will be required to manufacture each Airbus A350 XWB and approximately 146 metric tons are required to manufacture each Airbus A380, including both the airframes and engines. Military sector Titanium shipments into the military sector are largely driven by government defense spending in North America and Europe. Military aerospace programs were the first to utilize titaniums unique properties on a large scale, beginning in the 1950s. Titanium shipments to military aerospace markets reached a peak in the 1980s before falling to historical lows in the early 1990s after the end of the Cold War. Since 2001, titanium shipments to military aerospace have increased, as discussed below. Based on its physical and performance properties, titanium has become widely accepted for use in applications for ground combat vehicles as well as in naval vessels. The importance of military markets to the titanium industry is expected to continue to rise in coming years as defense spending budgets increase in reaction to terrorist activities and global conflicts and to replace aging conventional armaments. Defense spending for most systems is expected to remain strong until at least 2010. Current and anticipated future military strategy leading to light armament and mobility favor the use of titanium due to light weight and improved ballistic performance. As the strategic military environment demands greater global lift and mobility, the U.S. military needs more airlift capacity and capability. Airframe programs are expected to drive the military market demand for titanium through 2015. Several of todays active U.S. military programs, including the C 17 and F 15, are currently expected to continue in production through the middle of the next decade, while other programs, such as the F/A 18 and F 16, are expected to continue into the middle of the next decade. European military programs also have active aerospace programs offering the possibility for increased titanium consumption. Production levels for the Saab Gripen, Eurofighter Typhoon, Dassault Rafale and Dassault Mirage 2000 are all forecasted to remain steady through the middle or end of the next decade. In addition to the established programs, newer U.S. programs offer growth opportunities for increased titanium consumption. The F/A 22 Raptor was given full rate production approval in April 2005. Additionally, the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter, now known as the Lightning II, has begun low rate initial production and assembly with delivery of the first production aircraft planned in 2010. Although no specific delivery schedules have been announced, according to The Teal Group, a leading aerospace publication, procurement is expected to extend over the next 30 to 40 years and may include production of as many as approximately 4,000 planes, including sales to foreign nations. Utilization of titanium on military ground combat vehicles for armor appliqu and integrated armor or structural components continues to gain acceptance within the military market segment. Titanium armor components provide the necessary ballistic performance while achieving a mission critical vehicle performance objective of reduced weight in new generation vehicles. In order to counteract increased threat levels globally, titanium is being utilized on vehicle upgrade programs in addition to new builds. Based on active programs, as well as programs currently under evaluation, we believe there will be additional usage of titanium on ground combat vehicles that will provide continued growth in the military market sector. In armor and armament, we sell plate and sheet products for fabrication into appliqu plate and reactive armor for protection of the entire ground combat vehicle as well as the vehicles primary structure. 3 Industrial and emerging markets sectors The number of end use markets for titanium has continued to expand significantly. Established industrial uses for titanium include chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Rapid growth of the Chinese and other Southeast Asian economies has brought unprecedented demand for titanium intensive industrial equipment. In November 2005, we entered into a joint venture with XIAN BAOTIMET VALINOX TUBES CO. LTD. (BAOTIMET) to produce welded titanium tubing in the Peoples Republic of China. BAOTIMETs production facilities are located in Xian, China, and production began in January 2007. Titanium continues to gain acceptance in many emerging market applications, including transportation, energy (including oil and gas) and architecture. Although titanium is often more expensive than other competing metals, over the entire life cycle of the application, we believe titanium is a less expensive alternative due to its durability, longevity and overall environmental impact. In many cases customers also find the physical properties of titanium to be attractive from the standpoint of weight, performance, design alternatives and other factors. The oil and gas market, a relatively new, potentially large growth area, utilizes titanium in down hole casing, critical riser components, tapered stress joints, fire water systems and saltwater cooling systems. Additionally, as offshore development of new oil and gas fields moves into the ultra deep water depths and as geothermal energy production expands, market demand for titaniums light weight, high strength and corrosion resistance properties is creating new growth opportunities. We have focused additional resources on development of alloys and production processes to promote the expansion of titanium use in this market and in other non aerospace applications. Although we estimate emerging market demand presently represents only about 5% of the 2008 total industry demand for titanium mill products, we believe emerging market demand, in the aggregate, could grow at double digit rates over the next several years. We have ongoing initiatives to actively pursue and expand our presence in these markets. Products and operations. We are a vertically integrated titanium manufacturer whose products include: (i) titanium sponge, the basic form of titanium metal used in titanium products; (ii) melted products (ingot, electrodes and slab), the result of melting titanium sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with various alloys; (iii) mill products that are forged and rolled from ingot or slab, including long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe; and (iv) fabrications (spools, pipe fittings, manifolds, vessels, etc.) that are cut, formed, welded and assembled from titanium mill products. All of our net sales were generated by our integrated titanium operations (our Titanium melted and mill products segment), which is our only business segment. Business and geographic financial information is included in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Titanium sponge is the commercially pure, elemental form of titanium metal with a porous and sponge like appearance. The first step in our sponge production involves the combination of titanium containing rutile ores (derived from beach sand) with chlorine and petroleum coke to produce titanium tetrachloride. Titanium tetrachloride is purified and then reacted with magnesium in a closed system, producing titanium sponge and magnesium chloride as co products. Our titanium sponge production facility in Henderson, Nevada uses vacuum distillation process (VDP) technology, which removes the magnesium and magnesium chloride residues by applying heat to the sponge mass while maintaining a vacuum in a chamber. The combination of heat and vacuum boils the residues from the sponge mass, and then the sponge mass is mechanically pushed out of the distillation vessel, sheared and crushed to prepare the sponge for incorporation into one of our melted products. We electrolytically separate and recycle the residual magnesium chloride, a by product of the VDP process, to improve cost efficiency and reduce environmental impact. Melted products (ingot, electrodes and slab) are produced by melting sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with alloys, to produce various grades of titanium products suited to the ultimate application of the product. By introducing other alloys such as vanadium, aluminum, molybdenum, tin and zirconium, the melted titanium product is engineered to produce quality grades with varying combinations of certain physical attributes such as strength to weight ratio, corrosion resistance and milling compatibility. Titanium ingot is a cylindrical solid shape that, in our case, weighs up to 8 metric tons. Titanium slab is a rectangular solid shape that, in our case, weighs up to 16 metric tons. The melting process for ingot and slab is closely controlled and monitored utilizing computer control systems to maintain product quality and consistency and to meet customer specifications. In most cases, we use our ingot and slab as the intermediate material for further processing into mill products. However, we also sell melted products to our customers. Mill products are forged or rolled from our melted products (ingot or slab). Mill products include long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe. Our mill products can be further machined to meet customer specifications with respect to size and finish. We send certain products to outside vendors for further processing (e.g., certain rolling, forging, finishing and other processing steps in the U.S., and certain melting and forging steps in France) before being shipped to customers. In France, our primary processor is also a partner in our 70% owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie, S.A. During 2006, we entered into a 20 year conversion services agreement with a supplier, whereby they will provide an annual output capacity of 4,500 metric tons of titanium mill rolling services until 2026, with our option to increase the output capacity to 9,000 metric tons. Additionally, during 2007, we entered into a long term agreement with another supplier whereby they will provide us dedicated annual forging capacity of 3,000 metric tons beginning in 2008 and increasing to 8,900 metric tons for 2011 through at least 2019. These agreements provide us with long term secure sources for processing round and flat products, resulting in a significant increase in our existing mill product conversion capabilities, which allows us to assure our customers of our long term ability to meet their needs. During the production process and following the completion of manufacturing, we perform extensive testing on our products. Sonic inspection as well as chemical and mechanical testing procedures are critical to ensuring that our products meet our customers high quality requirements, particularly in aerospace component production. We certify that our products meet customer specification at the time of shipment for substantially all customer orders. Titanium scrap is a by product of the forging, rolling and machining operations, and significant quantities of scrap are generated in the production process for finished titanium products and components. Scrap by products from our mill production processes, as well as the scrap purchased from our customers or on the open metals market, is typically recycled and introduced into the melting process once the scrap is sorted and cleaned. We have the capacity to recycle 14,000 to 16,000 metric tons of titanium scrap annually at our facility in Morgantown, Pennsylvania depending on the scrap and end use product mix. We believe our capability and expertise in recycling titanium scrap provides a competitive advantage. 4 Distribution. We sell our products through our own sales force based in the U.S. and Europe and through independent agents and distributors worldwide. We also own eight service centers (five in the U.S. and three in Europe), which we use to sell our products on a just in time basis. The service centers primarily sell value added and customized mill products, including bar, sheet, plate, tubing and strip. We believe our service centers provide a competitive advantage because of our ability to foster customer relationships, customize products to suit specific customer requirements and respond quickly to customer needs. Raw materials. The principal raw materials used in the production of titanium ingot, slab and mill products are titanium sponge, titanium scrap and alloys. The following table summarizes our 2008 raw material usage requirements in the production of our melted and mill products: Percentage of total raw material requirements Internally produced sponge 24 % Purchased sponge 31 % Titanium scrap 39 % Alloys 6 % Total 100 % Sponge The primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge are titanium containing rutile ore, chlorine, magnesium and petroleum coke. Rutile ore is currently available from a limited number of suppliers around the world, principally located in Australia, South Africa and Sri Lanka. We purchase the majority of our supply of rutile ore from Australia and South Africa. We believe the availability of rutile ore will be adequate for the foreseeable future and do not anticipate any interruptions of our rutile supplies. We currently obtain chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada. While we do not anticipate any chlorine supply problems, we have taken steps to mitigate this risk in the event of supply disruption, including establishing the feasibility of certain equipment modifications to enable us to utilize material from alternative chlorine suppliers or to purchase and utilize an intermediate product which will allow us to eliminate the purchase of chlorine if needed. Magnesium and petroleum coke are generally available from a number of suppliers. We are currently the largest U.S. producer of titanium sponge. In 2007, we completed an expansion of our existing premium grade titanium sponge facility at our Henderson plant. This expansion increased our annual productive sponge capacity to approximately 12,600 metric tons, and we supplement our produced sponge with purchases from third parties. From 2006 through 2008, other sponge producers have also undertaken additional capacity expansion projects. However, we do not know the degree to which quality and cost of the sponge produced by our competitors will be comparable to the premium grade sponge we produce in our Henderson facility. We are party to long term sponge supply agreements that require us to make minimum annual purchases. These long term supply agreements, together with our current sponge production capacity in Henderson, should provide us with a total annual available sponge supply at levels ranging from 18,000 metric tons up to 26,000 metric tons through 2024, which we expect to meet our sponge supply requirements. Titanium melted and mill products require varying grades of sponge and or scrap depending on the customers specifications and expected end use. We will continue to purchase sponge from a variety of sources in 2009, including those sources under existing supply agreements. Due to anticipated reductions in demand in 2009 for titanium products, we continue to evaluate alternatives to balance our internal and external sources for titanium sponge. Scrap We recycle titanium scrap into melted products that will be sold to our customers or used as intermediate feedstock for our mill production process. Our titanium scrap is generated from our melted and mill product production processes, purchased from certain of our customers under contractual agreements or acquired in the open metals market. Such scrap consists of alloyed and commercially pure solids and turnings. Scrap obtained through customer arrangements provides a closed loop arrangement resulting in certainty of supply and cost stability. Externally purchased scrap comes from a wide range of sources, including customers, collectors, processors and brokers. Due to our successful efforts to increase the volume of scrap obtained through closed loop arrangements, we only purchased 27% of our scrap requirement from the open metals market in 2008, and we expect our scrap purchases to remain at the same rate during 2009. We expect our scrap consumption to remain at high levels as we continue to emphasize the utilization of scrap for our electron beam cold hearth (EB) melting activity. We also occasionally sell scrap, usually in a form or grade we cannot economically recycle for use in our production operations. Overall market forces can significantly impact the supply or cost of externally produced scrap, as the amount of scrap generated in the supply chain varies during titanium business cycles. Early in the titanium cycle, the demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to increase the scrap requirements for titanium manufacturers. This demand precedes the increase in scrap generation by downstream customers and the supply chain. The pressure on scrap generation and the supply chain at this stage of the cycle places upward pressure on the market price of scrap. The opposite situation occurs when demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to decline, resulting in greater availability of scrap supply and downward pressure on the market price of scrap. During the middle of the cycle, scrap generation and consumption are in relative equilibrium, minimizing disruptions in supply or significant changes in the available supply and market prices for scrap. Increasing or decreasing cycles tend to cause significant changes in both the supply and market price of scrap. These supply chain dynamics result in selling prices for melted and mill products which generally tend to correspond with the changes in raw material costs. All of our major competitors utilize scrap as a raw material in their titanium melt operations, and steel manufacturers also use titanium scrap as an alloy to produce interstitial free steels, stainless steels and high strength low alloy steels. Prices for all forms and grades of titanium scrap declined steadily during the first half of 2008 due to increased availability and reduced demand. The global recession reduced demand for titanium scrap in the second half of 2008, which resulted in sharp declines in scrap prices late in 2008. As a result of the market forces described above, general economic conditions are expected to continue to affect the prices of titanium scrap in 2009. Other Various alloy additions used in the production of titanium products, such as vanadium and molybdenum, are also available from a number of suppliers. The decline in demand from steel manufacturers for vanadium and molybdenum also resulted in dramatic drops in cost for these alloys, and we expect alloy costs will continue to fluctuate in the future. Customer agreements. We have long term agreements (LTAs) with certain major customers, including, among others, The Boeing Company (Boeing), Rolls Royce plc and its German and U.S. affiliates (Rolls Royce), United Technologies Corporation (UTC, Pratt & Whitney and related companies), the Safran companies (Safran, Snecma and related companies), Wyman Gordon Company (Wyman Gordon, a unit of Precision Castparts Corporation (PCC)) and VALTIMET SAS. These agreements expire at various times through 2017, are subject to certain conditions and generally provide for (i) minimum market shares of the customers titanium requirements or firm annual volume commitments, (ii) formula determined prices (including some elements based on market pricing) and (iii) price adjustments for certain raw material, labor and energy cost fluctuations. Generally, the LTAs require our service and product performance to meet specified criteria and contain a number of other terms and conditions customary in transactions of these types. Certain provisions of these LTAs have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. Our 2008 sales revenues to customers under LTAs were 56% of our total sales revenues. In certain events of nonperformance by us or the customer, an LTA may be terminated early. Although it is possible that some portion of the business would continue on a non LTA basis, the termination or expiration of one or more of the LTAs could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The LTAs were designed to limit selling price volatility to the customer and to us, while providing us with a committed volume base throughout the titanium industry business cycles and certain mechanisms to adjust pricing for changes in certain cost elements. 5 Markets and customer base. As discussed previously, we produce a wide range of melted and mill titanium products for our customers, and selling prices generally reflect raw material and other productions costs as well as reasonable profit margins. Selling prices are generally influenced by industry and global economic conditions. For instance, since early 2007, increases in global capacity and manufacturing activity for titanium products throughout the supply chain have increased the availability of titanium scrap, which has resulted in declining costs for this raw material. This decline in raw material costs has, in turn, contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under LTAs, due in part to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements, as well as for our non contract sales volume. The demand for our titanium products is global, and our global productive capabilities allow us to respond to our customers needs. The following table summarizes our sales revenue by geographical location: Year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Sales revenue to customers within: North America 59 % 58 % 56 % Europe 32 % 33 % 33 % Other 9 % 9 % 11 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Further information regarding our external sales, net income, long lived assets and total assets can be found in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income and Notes 5 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our concentration of customers, primarily in commercial aerospace, may impact our overall exposure to credit and other risks, either positively or negatively, because all of these customers may be similarly affected by the same economic or other conditions. The following table provides supplemental sales revenue information: Year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Ten largest customers 49 % 49 % 49 % Significant customers: PCC and PCC related entities (1) 11 % 11 % 10 % Boeing (2) 10 % 12 % Total LTAs 39 % 47 % 56 % Significant LTAs: Rolls Royce (1) (2) 12 % 13 % Boeing (2) 10 % 12 % (1) PCC and PCC related entities serve as suppliers to certain commercial aerospace manufacturers, including Rolls Royce. Certain sales we make directly to PCC and PCC related entities also count towards, and are reflected in, the table above as sales to Rolls Royce under the Rolls Royce LTA. (2) Amounts excluded for periods when the revenue percentage is not at least 10%. The following table provides supplemental sales revenue information by industry sector: Year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Commercial aerospace 57 % 55 % 59 % Military 15 % 19 % 16 % Industrial and emerging markets 17 % 16 % 15 % Other titanium products 11 % 10 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The primary market for titanium products in the commercial aerospace sector consists of two major manufacturers of large commercial airframes, Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group (a unit of Boeing) and Airbus, as well as manufacturers of large civil aircraft engines including Rolls Royce, General Electric Aircraft Engines, Pratt & Whitney and Safran. We sell directly to these major manufacturers, as well as to companies (including forgers such as Wyman Gordon) that use our titanium to produce parts and other materials for such manufacturers. If any of the major aerospace manufacturers were to significantly reduce aircraft and or jet engine build rates from those currently expected, there could be a material adverse effect, both directly and indirectly, on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The market for titanium in the military sector includes sales of melted and mill titanium products engineered for applications for military aircraft (both engines and airframes), armor and component parts, armor appliqu on ground combat vehicles and other integrated armor or structural components. We sell directly to many of the major manufacturers associated with military programs on a global basis. Outside of commercial aerospace and military sectors, we manufacture a wide range of products for customers in the chemical process, oil and gas, consumer, sporting goods, healthcare, automotive and power generation sectors. In addition to melted and mill products, which are sold into all market sectors, we sell certain other products such as titanium fabrications, titanium scrap and titanium tetrachloride. Our backlog was approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2007 and $0.7 billion at December 31, 2008. Over 91% of our 2008 year end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2009. Our order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. We have explored and will continue to explore strategic arrangements in the areas of product development, production and distribution. We will also continue to work with existing and potential customers to identify and develop new or improved applications for titanium that take advantage of its unique properties and qualities. 6 Competition. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Producers of melted and mill products are located primarily in the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, China and the United Kingdom. Additionally, producers of other metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities that could be used or modified to process titanium products. There are also several producers of titanium sponge in the world, at least four of which are currently in some stage of increasing sponge production capacity. We believe entry as a new producer of titanium sponge would require a significant capital investment, substantial technical expertise and significant lead time. Our principal competitors in the aerospace titanium market are Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (ATI) and RTI International Metals, Inc. (RTI), both based in the United States, and Verkhnaya Salda Metallurgical Production Organization (VSMPO), based in Russia. UNITI (a joint venture between ATI and VSMPO), RTI and certain Japanese producers are our principal competitors in the industrial and emerging markets. We compete primarily on the basis of price, quality of products, technical support and the availability of products to meet customers delivery schedules. In the U.S. market, the increasing presence of foreign participants has become a significant competitive factor. Prior to 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. were not significant, primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. To the extent we are able to take advantage of this situation by purchasing sponge from such countries for use in our own operations, the negative effect of these imports on us can be somewhat mitigated. Trade and tariffs Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% normal trade relations tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). Because a significant portion of end use products made from titanium products are ultimately exported, we, along with our principal competitors and many customers, actively utilize the duty drawback mechanism to recover most of the tariff paid on imports. From time to time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future. The Japanese government has raised the elimination or harmonization of tariffs on titanium products, including titanium sponge, for consideration in multi lateral trade negotiations through the World Trade Organization (the so called Doha Round). As part of the Doha Round, the United States has proposed the staged elimination of all industrial tariffs, including those on titanium. The Japanese government has specifically asked that titanium in all its forms be included in the tariff elimination program. We have urged that no change be made to these tariffs, either on wrought or unwrought products. The negotiations are ongoing and are expected to continue during 2009. We will continue to resist efforts to eliminate duties on titanium products, although we may not be successful in these activities. Further reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all of these tariffs could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot, slab and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could adversely affect pricing for titanium sponge, ingot, slab and mill products and thus our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Section 2533b of Title 10, United States Code, legislation formerly known as the Berry Amendment, requires that subject to certain exceptions the United States Department of Defense (DoD) expend funds for products containing specialty metals, including titanium, only if the specialty metals have been melted or produced in the United States. In 2008, the DoD proposed regulations regarding the implementation of this specialty metals law that may reduce its effectiveness. We have filed comments urging the DoD not to adopt the proposed regulations and will continue to resist attempts to undermine this specialty metals law. A weakening in the enforcement of this specialty metals law could increase foreign competition for sales of titanium for defense products, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Research and development. Our research and development activities are directed toward expanding the use of titanium and titanium alloys in all market sectors. Key research activities include the development of new alloys, development of technology required to enhance the performance of our products in the traditional industrial and aerospace markets and applications development for emerging markets. In addition, we continue to work in partnership with the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ("DARPA") and others to explore means to reduce the cost of titanium production. The work with DARPA complements our research, development and exploration of innovative technologies and improvements to the existing processes such as Vacuum Distillation of sponge and Vacuum Arc Remelting processes. We conduct the majority of our research and development activities at our Henderson Technical Laboratory, with additional activities at our Witton, England facility. We incurred research and development costs of $4.7 million in 2006, $4.2 million in 2007 and $4.3 million in 2008. Patents and trademarks. We hold U.S. and non U.S. patents applicable to certain of our titanium alloys and manufacturing technology, which expire at various times from 2009 through 2026 and we have certain other patent applications pending. We continually seek patent protection with respect to our technology base and have occasionally entered into cross licensing arrangements with third parties. We believe the trademarks TIMET and TIMETAL, which are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries, are important to our business. However, the majority of our titanium alloys and manufacturing technologies do not benefit from patent or other intellectual property protection. Employees. Our employee headcount varies due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and its impact on our business. Our employee headcount includes both our full and part time employees. The following table shows our approximate employee headcount at the end of the past 3 years: Employees at December 31, 2006 2007 2008 U.S. 1,545 1,670 1,775 Europe 835 860 895 Total 2,380 2,530 2,670 Our production and maintenance workers in Henderson and our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio (approximately half of our total U.S. employees) are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in January 2011 and June 2011, respectively. Employees at our other U.S. facilities are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. A majority of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Our labor agreement with our U.K. production and maintenance employees expired at the end of 2008, and a new labor agreement is currently under negotiation. Our labor agreement with our U.K. managerial and professional employees runs through March 2011. Our labor agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. We currently consider our employee relations to be good. However, it is possible that there could be future work stoppages or other labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Regulatory and environmental matters. Our operations are governed by various Federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. In the U.S., such laws include the Occupational, Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We use and manufacture substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. We have used and manufactured such substances throughout the history of our operations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws, common law theories of liability or non compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. It is possible that some, or all, of these risks could result in liabilities that would be material to our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 7 Our policy is to maintain compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements of environmental and worker health and safety laws and strive to improve environmental, health and safety performance. We incurred capital expenditures related to health, safety and environmental compliance and improvement of approximately $2.0 million in 2006, $3.0 million in 2007 and $2.1 million in 2008. From time to time, we may be subject to health, safety or environmental regulatory enforcement under various statutes, resolution of which typically involves the establishment of compliance programs. Occasionally, resolution of these matters may result in the payment of penalties or the expenditure of additional funds on compliance. Furthermore, the imposition of more strict standards or requirements under environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. As part of our continuing environmental assessment with respect to our plant site in Henderson in the third quarter of 2008 we completed and submitted to the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (NDEP) a Remedial Alternative Study (RAS) with respect to the groundwater located beneath the plant site. The RAS, which was submitted pursuant to an existing agreement between the NDEP and us, addressed the presence of certain contaminants in the plant site groundwater that require remediation. The RAS proposes various alternatives to the NDEP for the remediation of these contaminants. Upon our completion and submission of the RAS to NDEP, we increased our estimated cost to complete the groundwater remediation by $2.6 million during 2008. The NDEP completed its review of the RAS and our proposed remedial alternatives during the fourth quarter of 2008, and the NDEP issued its record of decision concerning the remediation plan in February 2009. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Related parties. At December 31, 2008, Contran Corporation and other entities or persons related to Harold C. Simmons held approximately 52.5% of our outstanding common stock. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available information. We maintain an Internet website at www.timet.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments thereto, are or will be available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished, as applicable, with the SEC. Additionally, our (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and (iii) Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee and Nominations Committee charters are also available on our website. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report. We will provide these documents to shareholders upon request. Requests should be directed to the attention of our Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1700, Dallas, Texas 75240. The general public may read and copy any materials on file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. We are an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our business. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor that could result in reduced earnings, liquidity or operating losses, could in turn adversely affect our ability to meet our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace industry, which represents a significant portion of our business, creates uncertainty regarding our future profitability. In addition, adverse changes to, or interruptions in, our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers could reduce our revenues and impact our profitability. The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers. The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the fluctuations in the performance of most titanium product producers. Our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. We shipped approximately 65% of our mill products to commercial aerospace customers in 2008, whereas we estimate approximately 46% of the overall titanium industrys mill products were shipped to commercial aerospace customers in 2008. Our melted and mill product sales to commercial aerospace customers accounted for 57% of our total sales in 2006, 55% in 2007 and 59% in 2008. In addition to general economic conditions, the commercial aerospace sector is expected to be negatively impacted in 2009 by (i) revisions and push outs of production schedules for the Boeing 787, (ii) adjustments and delays in certain other commercial aircraft build out schedules and (iii) Boeings labor dispute, which lasted approximately eight weeks and ended in November 2008. These factors are expected to continue to negatively impact commercial aerospace demand until uncertainties within the commercial aerospace production cycle are resolved and demand is stabilized on a longer term basis. We estimate that 2009 industry mill product shipments into the commercial aerospace sector will decrease 15% to 25% from 2008 levels. Events that could adversely affect the commercial aerospace sector, such as future terrorist attacks, world health crises, the general economic downturn or unforeseen reductions in orders from commercial airlines, could significantly decrease our results of operations and financial condition. See Business Titanium industry Commercial aerospace sector. Sales under LTAs with customers in the commercial aerospace sector accounted for approximately 35% of our 2008 total sales. These LTAs expire at various times beginning in 2011 through 2017. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls Royce, Safran, UTC and Wyman Gordon, under the LTAs we have with these customers, our sales could decrease substantially, negatively impacting our profitability. See Business Customer agreements and Business Markets and customer base. Global economic conditions may affect pricing and demand for our products which could lead to reduced revenues and profitability. Pricing and demand for our products are affected by a number of factors, including changes in demand for our customers products, changes in general economic conditions, availability of credit, changes in market demand, lower overall pricing due to overcapacity, lower priced imports and increases in the use of substitute materials. The current global economic downturn could lead to further reductions in demand for our products and our customers products, excess inventory within the titanium supply chain and excess capacity throughout the industry, including our manufacturing locations. Furthermore, reductions in credit generally available in the financial markets could have adverse impacts on the industry including our business. In addition to the impact that global economic conditions have already had on our business, if these conditions worsen or persist, our financial condition and results of operations may be further impacted. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The global titanium markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down market prices because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, producers of metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities. Such facilities could be used or modified to process titanium mill products, which could lead to increased competition and decreased pricing for our titanium products. In addition, many factors, including excess capacity resulting from reduced demand in the titanium industry, work to intensify the price competition for available business at low points in the business cycle. Our dependence upon certain critical raw materials that are subject to price and availability fluctuations could lead to increased costs or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers around the world, and principally on those located in Australia and South Africa, for our supply of titanium containing rutile ore, one of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge. While chlorine, another of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge, is generally widely available, we currently obtain our chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson. Also, we cannot supply all our needs for all grades of titanium sponge and scrap internally and are therefore dependent on third parties for a substantial portion of our raw material requirements. All of our major competitors utilize sponge and scrap as raw materials in their melt operations. Titanium scrap is also used in certain steel making operations, and demand for these steel products, especially from China, also influences demand for titanium scrap. Purchase prices and availability of these critical materials are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable to us, or at all. To help stabilize our supply of titanium sponge, we have entered into LTAs with certain sponge suppliers that contain fixed annual supply obligations. These LTAs contain minimum annual purchase requirements and, in certain cases, include take or pay provisions which require us to pay penalties if we do not meet the minimum annual purchase requirements. See Business Products and Operations Raw materials, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Contractual commitments and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 Although overall inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate, during the same period certain critical raw material costs in our industry, including titanium sponge and scrap, have been volatile. While we are able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of fluctuating raw material costs through LTAs with suppliers and customers, rapid increases in raw material costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to implement price increases. We change prices on certain of our products from time to time. Our ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. The benefits of any price increases may be delayed due to long manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. Pricing under our LTAs, which were designed to limit selling price volatility to our customers and us, are generally revised on an annual basis. These factors have had, and may have, an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to develop new markets would result in our continued dependence on the cyclical commercial aerospace sector, and our operating results would, accordingly, remain cyclical. In an effort to reduce dependence on the commercial aerospace market and to increase participation in other markets, we have devoted certain resources to developing new markets and applications for our products. Developing these emerging market applications involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to the fact that titanium must compete with less expensive alternative materials in these potential markets or applications. We may not be successful in developing new markets or applications for our products, significant time may be required for such development and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Because we are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations, we may be required to remediate the environmental effects of our operations or take steps to modify our operations to comply with these laws and regulations, which could reduce our profitability. Various federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations govern our operations. Throughout the history of our operations, we have used and manufactured, and currently use and manufacture, substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. Some or all of these risks may result in liabilities that could reduce our profitability. Reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all tariffs on imported titanium products into the United States could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot, slab and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could decrease pricing for our products. In the U.S. titanium market, the increasing presence of foreign participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% normal trade relations tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). From time to time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future, and we may not be successful in resisting efforts to eliminate duties or tariffs on titanium products. See discussion of Doha Round in Business Competition. We may be unable to reach or maintain satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with unions representing a significant portion of our employees. Our production and maintenance workers in Henderson and our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in January 2011 and June 2011, for the respective locations. A majority of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Our labor agreement with our managerial and professional U.K. employees expires in 2011. Our labor agreement with our U.K. production and maintenance employees expired at the end of 2008, and a new labor agreement is currently under negotiation. The agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. A prolonged labor dispute or work stoppage could materially impact our operating results. We may not succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions on terms acceptable to us or maintaining satisfactory relations under existing collective bargaining agreements. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES Set forth below is a listing of our major production facilities. In addition to our U.S. sponge capacity discussed below, our worldwide melting capacity aggregates approximately 61,250 metric tons (estimated 20% of worldwide annual practical capacity) as of December 31, 2008, and our mill product capacity aggregates approximately 27,700 metric tons (estimated 18% of worldwide annual practical capacity) as of December 31, 2008. Of our worldwide melting capacity, 40% is represented by EB melting furnaces, 59% by vacuum arc remelting (VAR) furnaces and 1% by a vacuum induction melting (VIM) furnace. December 31, 2008 Annual Practical Capacity (3) Manufacturing Location Products Manufactured Melted Products Mill Products (metric tons) Henderson, Nevada (1) Sponge, Ingot 12,250 Morgantown, Pennsylvania (1) Slab, Ingot, Raw Materials Processing 33,500 Toronto, Ohio (1) Billet, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Strip 15,000 Vallejo, California (2) Ingot (including non titanium superalloys) 1,600 Ugine, France (2) (4) Ingot, Billet 3,200 2,600 Waunarlwydd, Wales(1) Bar, Plate, Sheet 3,100 Witton, England (2) Ingot, Billet, Bar 10,700 7,000 (1) Owned facility. (2) Leased facility. (3) Practical capacities are variable based on product mix and are not additive. These capacities are as of December 31, 2008 and do not reflect the increases expected to be realized during 2009 as a result of capacity expansion projects, several of which are mentioned below. (4) Practical capacities are based on the approximate maximum equivalent product that CEZUS is contractually obligated to provide. During the past three years, our major production facilities have operated at varying levels of practical capacity. Overall our plants operated at approximately 88% of practical capacity in each of 2006 and 2007 and 81% in 2008. While practical capacity and utilization measures can vary significantly based upon the mix of products produced, we anticipate operating our plants at lower production levels in 2009 due to reduced demand. 9 United States production. In 2007, we completed the expansion of our existing premium grade titanium sponge facility in Henderson and reached practical capacity for commercial production in early 2008. This expansion increased our annual productive capacity to approximately 12,600 metric tons. Our U.S. melting facilities in Henderson, Morgantown and Vallejo produce ingot and slab, which are either used as feedstock for our mill products operations or sold to third parties, and we are in the process of expanding our melt capacity. Our melting facilities operated at approximately 78% of annual practical capacity in 2008. We expect lower capacity utilization in 2009, as melt capacities increase during 2009. In early 2008, we completed an 8,500 metric ton expansion of our EB melt capacity in Morgantown. In addition, we have commenced construction of another EB furnace at the same facility, which is currently on schedule to be completed in the first half of 2009 which, upon completion, will increase our EB melt capacity by approximately 26%. Also during 2008, we completed an addition to our VAR capacity in Morgantown, which increased our VAR capacity by approximately 5,000 metric tons. Our raw materials processing facility in Morgantown primarily processes scrap used as melting feedstock, either in combination with sponge or separately. We produce titanium mill products in the U.S. at our forging and rolling facility in Toronto, which receives ingot and slab principally from our U.S. melting facilities. Our U.S. forging and rolling facility operated at approximately 87% of annual practical capacity in 2008, and we expect lower utilization in 2009. Capacity utilization across our individual mill product lines varies. Under various conversion services agreements with third party vendors, we have access to a dedicated annual capacity at certain of our vendors facilities. Our access to outside conversion services includes dedicated annual rolling capacity of at least 4,500 metric tons until 2026, with the option to increase the output capacity to 9,000 metric tons. Additionally, we have access to dedicated annual forging capacity of 3,300 metric tons beginning in 2008 and ramping up to 8,900 metric tons for 2011 through at least 2019. These agreements provide us with long term secure sources for processing round and flat products, resulting in a significant increase in our existing mill product conversion capabilities, which allows us to assure our customers of our long term ability to meet their needs. European production. We conduct our operations in Europe primarily through our wholly owned subsidiaries, TIMET UK, Ltd. and Loterios S.p.A., and our 70% owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie. TIMET UKs Witton laboratory and manufacturing facilities are leased pursuant to long term operating leases expiring in 2014 and 2024, respectively. TIMET UKs melting facility in Witton produces VAR ingot used primarily as feedstock for our Witton forging operations. TIMET UK forges the ingot into billet products for sale to third parties or into an intermediate product for further processing into bar or plate at our facility in Waunarlwydd. TIMET UKs melting and mill products production in 2008 was approximately 81% and 61%, respectively, of annual practical capacity, and we expect lower utilization in 2009. In mid 2008 we completed construction of a new VAR furnace at our Witton location, which increased our European VAR capacity by approximately 2,000 metric tons. TIMET Savoie has the right to utilize portions of the Ugine plant of Compagnie Europenne du Zirconium CEZUS, S.A. (CEZUS), the 30% minority partner in TIMET Savoie, pursuant to a conversion services agreement which runs through 2015. TIMET Savoies capacity is to a certain extent dependent upon the level of activity in CEZUS zirconium business, which may from time to time provide TIMET Savoie with capacity in excess of that which CEZUS is contractually required to provide. Our agreement with CEZUS provides for the expansion of the maximum annual melt capacity that CEZUS is contractually required to provide to us to 2,900 metric tons for three years following the capacity implementation in late 2008. During 2008, TIMET Savoie utilized 97% of the maximum annual capacity CEZUS was contractually required to provide, and we expect to utilize less than the maximum annual capacity CEZUS is required to provide in 2009. Loterios manufactures large industrial use fabrications, generally on a project engineering and design basis, and therefore, measures of annual capacity are not practical or meaningful. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to our business. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2008. 10 PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: TIE). The high and low sales prices for our common stock during 2007, 2008 and the first two months of 2009 are set forth below. All prices (as well as all share numbers referenced herein) have been adjusted to reflect previously affected stock splits. Year ended December 31, 2007: High Low First quarter $ 38.85 $ 28.83 Second quarter $ 39.80 $ 30.30 Third quarter $ 35.32 $ 25.75 Fourth quarter $ 36.50 $ 25.26 Year ended December 31, 2008: First quarter $ 26.79 $ 13.05 Second quarter $ 19.65 $ 13.33 Third quarter $ 15.00 $ 9.80 Fourth quarter $ 11.32 $ 5.31 January 1, 2009 to February 19, 2009 $ 9.89 $ 6.35 On February 19, 2009, the closing price of TIMET common stock was $7.15 per share, and there were approximately 2,325 stockholders of record of TIMET common stock. We previously issued $201.3 million of 6.625% mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred securities, beneficial unsecured convertible securities (BUCS) which, among other things, were redeemable for a certain number of shares of our common stock. Prior to 2005, we issued 3.9 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock in exchange for 3.9 million BUCS. During 2005 and 2006, all of the BUCS that were not exchanged for shares of our Series A Preferred Stock were redeemed for approximately 0.6 million shares of our common stock and a nominal amount of cash. Our Series A Preferred Stock is not mandatorily redeemable but is redeemable at our option at any time after September 1, 2007. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share), when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Whether or not declared, cumulative dividends on Series A Preferred Stock are deducted from net income to arrive at net income attributable to common stockholders. Our U.S. long term credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that may restrict our ability to make dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, an aggregate of 1.3 million, 1.6 million and a nominal number of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 17.2 million, 21.3 million and 0.3 million shares of our common stock, respectively. As a result of these conversions, approximately 0.1 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding as of December 31, 2008. We initiated a quarterly dividend on our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007 resulting in dividends of $13.7 million, or $0.075 per common share during 2007, and we paid an aggregate of $54.5 million, or $0.30 per common share, in dividends on our common stock during 2008. However, declaration and payment of future dividends on our common stock, and the amount thereof, is discretionary and is dependent upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements for our business, contractual requirements and restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The amount and timing of past dividends is not necessarily indicative of the amount and timing of future dividends which we might pay. In this regard, our U.S. long term credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that may restrict our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock. During 2007, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of our common stock in open market transactions or in privately negotiated transactions, with any repurchased shares to be retired and cancelled. During 2008, we purchased 2.3 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions for an aggregate purchase price of $36.5 million, and all shares acquired under this repurchase program during 2008 have been cancelled. At December 31, 2008, we could purchase an additional $63.5 million of our common stock under our board of directors authorization. Performance graph. Set forth below is a line graph comparing, for the period December 31, 2003 through December 31, 2008, the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock against the cumulative total return of (a) the S&P Composite 500 Stock Index and (b) a self selected peer group, comprised solely of RTI International Metals, Inc. (NYSE: RTI), our principal U.S. competitor with significant operations primarily in the titanium metals industry for which meaningful stockholder return information is available. The graph shows the value at December 31 of each year, assuming an original investment of $100 in each and reinvestment of cash dividends and other distributions to stockholders. Comparison of Cumulative Return among Titanium Metals Corporation, S&P 500 Composite Index and Self Selected Peer Group The information contained in the performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or filed with the SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act, except to the extent we specifically request that the material be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates this performance graph by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act. Equity compensation plan information. We have certain equity compensation plans, all of which were approved by our stockholders, which provide for the discretionary grant to our employees and directors of, among other things, options to purchase our common stock and stock awards. As of December 31, 2008, there were a nominal number of options outstanding under all such plans to purchase shares of our common stock, all of which were exercised on or before February 23, 2009, and approximately 0.5 million shares were available for future grant or issuance. In May 2008, our board of directors and stockholders approved the 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan, which authorizes us to grant awards representing an aggregate total of up to 0.5 million common shares under the plan, and we issued a nominal number of unrestricted common shares to our non employee directors during 2008. We do not have any equity compensation plans that were not approved by our stockholders. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 11 ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 MD&A. Year ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 ($ in millions, except per share and product shipment data) STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA: Net sales $ 501.8 $ 749.8 $ 1,183.2 $ 1,278.9 $ 1,151.5 Gross margin 63.7 199.4 436.1 447.4 287.7 Operating income 43.0 171.1 382.8 372.0 219.7 Interest expense 12.5 4.0 3.4 2.6 1.8 Net income attributable tocommon stockholders 43.3 143.7 274.5 263.1 162.2 Earnings per share: Basic (1) $ 0.34 $ 1.10 $ 1.77 $ 1.62 $ 0.89 Diluted (1) 0.33 0.86 1.53 1.46 0.89 Dividends per common share 0.075 0.30 BALANCE SHEET DATA: Cash and cash equivalents $ 7.2 $ 17.7 $ 29.4 $ 90.0 $ 45.0 Total assets (2) 700.6 907.3 1,216.9 1,419.9 1,367.7 Outstanding indebtedness (3) 43.4 51.6 0.7 0.5 0.2 Debt payable to Capital Trust 12.0 5.9 Stockholders equity (2) 406.4 562.2 878.9 1,132.7 1,079.6 CASH FLOW DATA: Cash flows (used) provided by: Operating activities $ (22.4 ) $ 72.9 $ 79.1 $ 192.1 $ 197.6 Investing activities (44.5 ) (61.5 ) (26.5 ) (108.2 ) (142.6 ) Financing activities 38.7 (42.5 ) (24.5 ) (97.7 ) Net cash (used) provided $ (28.2 ) $ 11.4 $ 10.1 $ 59.4 $ (42.7 ) Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,360 5,655 5,900 4,720 3,850 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 13.45 $ 19.85 $ 38.30 $ 40.65 $ 30.00 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 11,365 12,660 14,160 14,230 15,050 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 32.05 $ 41.75 $ 57.85 $ 66.90 $ 60.70 Order backlog at December 31 (4) $ 450 $ 870 $ 1,125 $ 1,000 $ 697 Capital expenditures $ 23.6 $ 61.1 $ 100.9 $ 100.9 $ 121.3 (1) All share and per share disclosures for all periods presented have been adjusted to give effect of all stock splits to date. (2) We adopted SFAS 158 effective December 31, 2006. (3) Outstanding indebtedness represents notes payable, current and noncurrent debt and capital lease obligations. (4) Order backlog is defined as unfilled purchase orders (including those under consignment arrangements), which are generally subject to deferral or cancellation by the customer under certain conditions. ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY General overview. We are a vertically integrated producer of titanium sponge, melted products and a variety of mill products for commercial aerospace, military, industrial and other applications. We are one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted products (ingot, electrodes and slab) and mill products (billet, bar, plate, sheet and strip). We are the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium. We are currently the largest producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, in the United States. We sell our titanium melted and mill products into four worldwide market sectors. Aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2008 were derived from the following sectors: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product shipments % of total Mill product shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Commercial aerospace 9,782 65 % 46,900 46 % Military 2,114 14 % 6,400 7 % Industrial 2,855 19 % 43,000 42 % Emerging markets 299 2 % 5,300 5 % 15,050 100 % 101,600 100 % (1) Estimates based on our titanium industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table above, our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. 12 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. We base our estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors we believe to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. We consider the policies and estimates discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their application requires our most significant judgments in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. Inventory valuation. We provide reserves for estimated obsolete or unmarketable inventories equal to the difference between the cost of inventories and the estimated net realizable value using assumptions about future demand for our products, alternate uses of the inventory and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by us, we may be required to recognize additional inventory reserves. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets may not be recoverable, we undertake an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. We did not evaluate any long lived assets for impairment during 2008 because no such impairment indicators were present. Income taxes. We record a valuation allowance if realization of our gross deferred income tax assets is not more likely than not after giving consideration to recent historical results and near term projections, and we also consider the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. We record reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertain Tax Positions, for tax positions where we believe it is more likely than not our position will not prevail with the applicable tax authorities. See Results of Operations Income taxes for discussion of our analysis of our deferred income tax valuation allowances and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our uncertain tax positions. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. Our pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. We review these rates annually with the assistance of our actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of 2008 to 2007 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2007 % of Total Net Sales 2008 % of Total Net Sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 191.9 15 % $ 115.5 10 % Mill products 952.0 74 % 913.5 79 % Other titanium products 135.0 11 % 122.5 11 % Total net sales 1,278.9 100 % 1,151.5 100 % Cost of sales 831.5 65 % 863.8 75 % Gross margin 447.4 35 % 287.7 25 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 69.0 5 % 66.5 6 % Other expense, net 6.4 1 % 1.5 0 % Operating income $ 372.0 29 % $ 219.7 19 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 4,720 3,850 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 40.65 $ 30.00 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 14,230 15,050 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 66.90 $ 60.70 13 Net sales. Our net sales were $1,151.5 million during 2008 compared to net sales of $1,278.9 million during 2007. Average selling prices for melted and mill products decreased 26% and 9%, respectively, from 2007 to 2008. Revisions and delays in the build out schedules of certain commercial aircraft, and the resulting effects on production and inventory levels throughout the supply chain, continue to negatively impact near term demand and selling prices for titanium products. Recent declines in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, have also contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long term agreements, due in part to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements. Although we believe long term demand trends are favorable, the adjustments and delays in the production schedule for the Boeing 787, including production delays resulting from Boeings labor dispute which was resolved during the fourth quarter of 2008, and the recent decline in global economic conditions, are expected to continue to impact customer inventory levels and product demand in 2009. Cost of sales. Our cost of sales was $863.8 million during 2008 compared to cost of sales of $831.5 million in 2007, a 4% increase from 2007, primarily resulting from a shift in our product mix to a higher concentration of mill products for 2008. Mill products carry a higher unit cost than melted products due to labor, overhead and yield costs associated with additional processing. Cost of sales for 2008 was favorably impacted by declining costs for titanium scrap, but these favorable impacts were substantially offset by higher costs of production, primarily energy, and certain other raw materials. We anticipate that our per unit cost of sales for both melted and mill products will continue to be favorably impacted by declining titanium scrap costs, but these favorable effects could be offset if production volumes decrease, which could result in additional per unit overhead allocations, or if costs of production and other raw materials rise. Gross margin. During 2008, our gross margin was $287.7 million as compared to $447.4 million for 2007, primarily reflecting decreases in the average selling prices for our melted and mill products. Operating income. Our operating income for 2008 was $219.7 million compared to $372.0 million during 2007 primarily due to the decline in gross margin. The 2007 period includes a $6.0 million expense related to previously capitalized costs associated with the planning and engineering for a new VDP sponge plant, based on our decision to delay the project indefinitely. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2008, we recognized other non operating income of $19.4 million consisting primarily of $9.9 million in foreign currency gains as the dollar strengthened against the pound sterling and the euro in the second half of 2008 and a $6.7 million gain on sale of an investment discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2007, we recognized other non operating income of $24.2 million consisting primarily of an $18.3 million gain on the sale of our investment in CompX discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 29% in 2008 compared to 30% in 2007. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate for 2008 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to a change in the mix of our pre tax earnings, with a higher percentage of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions in 2008, primarily as a result of the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization in 2007. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2008 includes: An income tax benefit of $14.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $1.9 million related to the reversal of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of an investment; An income tax benefit of $4.0 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004; and An income tax expense of $2.7 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. Our income tax expense in 2007 includes: An income tax benefit of $12.6 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $6.5 million related primarily to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in CompX; and An income tax benefit of $4.7 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The U.K. has proposed legislation that, if enacted, would increase our effective income tax rate and our cash tax payments. 14 Comparison of 2007 to 2006 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2006 % of Total Net Sales 2007 % of TotalNet Sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 226.0 19 % $ 191.9 15 % Mill products 819.2 69 % 952.0 74 % Other titanium products 138.0 12 % 135.0 11 % Total net sales 1,183.2 100 % 1,278.9 100 % Cost of sales 747.1 63 % 831.5 65 % Gross margin 436.1 37 % 447.4 35 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 67.0 6 % 69.0 5 % Other income (expense), net 13.7 1 % (6.4 ) 1 % Operating income $ 382.8 32 % $ 372.0 29 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,900 4,720 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 38.30 $ 40.65 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 14,160 14,230 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 57.85 $ 66.90 Net sales. During 2007, net sales increased 8% to $1,278.9 million from $1,183.2 million in 2006. Average selling prices for melted and mill products increased 6% and 16%, respectively, in 2007 compared to 2006. Customer demands influenced a shift of our product mix toward an increased proportion of mill products, which require additional processing and resources and also command higher sales prices as compared to melted products. While our combined melted and mill product shipment volume declined during 2007, our mill product shipment volume increased slightly in 2007 compared to the prior year. The increased pricing on our products and the favorable shift in product mix more than offset the effect of lower aggregate sales volume for 2007 compared to 2006. Cost of sales. Our cost of sales increased $84.4 million, or 11%, in 2007 as compared to 2006 due to an increase in certain raw material costs, including titanium sponge and scrap, and higher production costs associated with our shift in product mix to a greater percentage of mill products. The higher cost of sponge in 2007 is partially due to our final utilization in the first half of 2006 of lower cost sponge previously purchased from the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency stockpile and the rapid rise in titanium sponge and scrap market prices experienced through early 2007. In 2007, increases in global titanium sponge capacity and increased use of titanium in the manufacture of components and products resulted in the increased availability of titanium sponge and scrap. As a result, our cost of purchased titanium sponge and scrap declined during the latter part of 2007. These declining raw material costs, in certain cases, resulted in indexed adjustments to selling prices under our long term sales agreements. The majority of the products sold during 2007 included higher cost raw materials acquired during prior periods due to the elapsed time required to convert these raw materials into their final form and to deliver them to our customers. Gross margin. During 2007, our gross margin increased 3% to $447.4 million as compared to 2006 reflecting the net effect of increases in average selling prices, and partially offsetting cost of sales increases associated with our higher raw material costs and higher cost of production, as discussed above. Operating income. Our operating income for 2007 was $372.0 million compared to $382.8 million for 2006. The 2007 period includes a $6.0 million expense related to previously capitalized costs associated with the planning and engineering for a new VDP sponge plant based on our decision to delay the project indefinitely. The 2006 period was positively impacted by $14.1 million of equity in earnings related to our interest in the VALTIMET joint venture that we sold in December 2006, partially offset by $8.6 million of travel, relocation and severance expenses incurred in connection with the relocation of our headquarters to Dallas, Texas and our operational management and information technology group to Exton, Pennsylvania. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2007, we recognized other non operating income of $24.2 million compared to other non operating income of $39.0 million during 2006. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we realized an $18.3 million gain on the sale of our investment in CompX during 2007, and we realized a $40.9 million gain on the sale of our investment in VALTIMET during 2006. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 30% in 2007 compared to 31% in 2006. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate for 2007 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to a change in the mix of our pre tax earnings, with a higher percentage of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions in 2007, primarily as a result of the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization in 2007. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2007 includes: An income tax benefit of $12.6 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $6.5 million related primarily to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in CompX; and An income tax benefit of $4.7 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Our income tax expense in 2006 includes: an income tax benefit of $17.1 million related to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in VALTIMET; an income tax benefit of $2.4 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004; and an income tax benefit of $1.0 million related to the elimination of certain items included in other comprehensive income following the sale of our interest in VALTIMET. 15 European operations We have substantial operations located in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 37% of our sales originated in Europe for 2008, a portion of which were denominated in foreign currency, principally the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain raw material costs, principally purchases of titanium sponge and alloys for our European operations, are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of our European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of our European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. Our export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. We do not use currency contracts to hedge our currency exposures. At December 31, 2008, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $82.2 million and $54.8 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable. Outlook We sold a record 15,050 metric tons of titanium mill products during 2008, despite softening demand in the fourth quarter of the year. In addition to the global credit crisis and economic recession, circumstances within the commercial aerospace market, including (i) the eight week labor dispute at Boeing, (ii) continued production delays on the Boeing 787 and (iii) the resulting excess titanium inventory in the supply chain, have contributed to weakened customer demand and lower prices for titanium products. We expect customer demand to remain volatile until uncertainties in the global economy and within the commercial aerospace production schedules begin to be resolved and inventory levels begin to stabilize. Although we have long term agreements with a majority of our major customers, many of which specify annual pricing mechanisms and minimum volume commitments that limit our exposure to the volatility of market pricing and fluctuating demand, we still anticipate reductions in our overall sales volumes and average selling prices for 2009. We anticipate that our per unit cost of sales for both melted and mill products will continue to be favorably impacted by declining titanium scrap costs, but these favorable effects could be offset if production volumes decrease, which could result in additional per unit overhead allocations, or if costs of production and other raw materials rise. Despite the demand volatility the industry is currently experiencing and the uncertainty surrounding the extent and duration of the current economic downturn, we believe the overall industry outlook supports a long term favorable trend in demand for titanium products. We continue to pursue our strategic plans to increase and improve our production capabilities, with a focus on opportunities to improve our operating flexibility, efficiency and cost structure, to meet the long term demands reflected in the titanium product volumes our customers have committed to purchase under long term agreements and in long term market sector forecasts. In particular, we continue to enhance our ability to meet our current and prospective customers needs and strengthen our position as a reliable supplier in markets where technical ability and precision are critical. We have been successful over the last two years in establishing significant flexibility and cost advantages in our entire manufacturing process. We believe that our strong customer relationships, efficient manufacturing processes and strong balance sheet have kept us well positioned in the current economic environment. We are in a strong financial position, with no debt and significant positive cash flow. We believe our financial strength will allow us to continue to invest in our business, fully serve our current and prospective customer requirements and pursue strategic opportunities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 79.1 $ 192.1 $ 197.6 Investing activities (26.5 ) (108.2 ) (142.6 ) Financing activities (42.5 ) (24.5 ) (97.7 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities $ 10.1 $ 59.4 $ (42.7 ) Operating activities. Cash flow from operations is considered a primary source of our liquidity. Changes in pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect our liquidity. Cash provided by operating activities increased $5.5 million, from $192.1 million in 2007 to $197.6 in 2008. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: lower operating income in 2008 of $152.3 million; lower net cash used in operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities of $42.1 million in 2008 in response to changing working capital requirements and improved collections of receivables; and lower net cash paid for income taxes in 2008 of $105.0 million due primarily to lower taxable income in 2008. Cash provided by operating activities increased $113.0 million, from $79.1 million in 2006 to $192.1 million in 2007. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: lower operating income in 2007 of $10.8 million; the $50.0 million payment made to Haynes in 2006 in return for the dedicated rolling capacity; lower net cash used in operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities of $95.8 million in 2007 in response to changing working capital requirements; and higher net cash paid for income taxes in 2007 of $65.8 million due to the utilization of the remainder of our U.S. net operating loss carryforward in 2006. 16 Investing activities. Cash flows used in our investing activities changed from $26.5 million in 2006 to $108.2 million in 2007 to $142.6 million in 2008. Our capital expenditures were $100.9 million during both 2006 and 2007 compared to $121.3 million in 2008. Capital projects and other significant investing activities include the following: During 2008, we incurred a higher level of expenditures related to the EB melt capacity expansion project at our facility in Morgantown and other capacity expansion projects at several of our U.S. and European plants. During 2007, we had lower capital expenditures on the sponge capacity expansion project compared to 2006, as the expansion was completed in April 2007. However, during 2007 we incurred a higher level of expenditures than we incurred during 2006 related to the EB melt capacity expansion project at our facility in Morgantown and other capacity expansion projects initiated in 2007 which largely offset the 2007 expenditure reductions on the sponge plant expansion project. The 2006 capital expenditure amount includes expenditures related to our sponge plant expansion in Henderson, which became fully operational in 2007, and our EB furnace at our facility in Morgantown, which became operational in early 2008. We purchased $26.4 million in marketable equity securities during 2008. We received principal payments on notes receivable from affiliates of $2.6 million in 2007 and $7.3 million in 2008. We received proceeds of $75.0 million from the sale of our interest in VALTIMET during 2006. Financing activities. We had net repayments under our U.S. bank credit facility of $52.7 million in 2006, funded primarily with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our interest in VALTIMET. We had no net borrowing activity during 2007 and 2008. Other significant items included in our cash flows from financing activities included: dividends paid on our common stock of $13.7 million in 2007 and $54.5 million in 2008, as we began paying a quarterly dividend of $0.075 per share in the fourth quarter of 2007; dividends paid on our Series A Preferred Stock of $7.2 million in 2006, $5.6 million in 2007 and $0.3 million in 2008; dividends paid to CEZUS of $3.0 million in 2006, $8.1 million in 2007 and $6.8 million in 2008; treasury stock purchases of $36.5 million during 2008; proceeds from the issuance of our common stock upon exercise of stock options of $11.3 million in 2006, $1.0 million in 2007 and a nominal amount in 2008; and an income tax benefit of $9.9 million in 2006, $2.1 million in 2007 and a nominal amount in 2008 related to the exercise of stock options. Future cash requirements Liquidity. Our primary source of liquidity on an ongoing basis is our cash flows from operating activities and borrowings under various credit facilities. We generally use these amounts to (i) fund capital expenditures, (ii) repay indebtedness incurred primarily for working capital purposes and (iii) provide for the payment of dividends. From time to time we will incur indebtedness, generally to (i) fund short term working capital needs, (ii) refinance existing indebtedness, (iii) make investments in marketable and other securities (including the acquisition of securities issued by our subsidiaries and affiliates) or (iv) fund major capital expenditures or the acquisition of other assets outside the ordinary course of business. We routinely evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, we have in the past, or in light of our current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify our common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, we investigate, evaluate, discuss and engage in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, we may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. We paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.075 per share in 2007 and four such quarterly cash dividends in 2008. In February 2009, our board of directors decided to suspend our quarterly dividend after considering the current economic and financial environment. We believe it is in our best interest to enhance our financial strength which will allow us to continue investing in our business and taking advantage of potential opportunities in our industry, including acquisitions, long term partnering agreements or joint ventures, if and when such strategic opportunities arise. Additionally, we will have the flexibility to repurchase shares of our common stock under our previously announced repurchase programs without sacrificing our ability to pursue other opportunities in our industry. The declaration and payment of future dividends will be dependent upon the boards consideration of our cash requirements, contractual requirements, strategic plans and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. At December 31, 2008, we had aggregate borrowing availability under our existing U.S and European credit facilities of $213.5 million, and we had an aggregate of $45.0 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our U.S. credit facility matures in February 2011, and our U.K. credit facility matures in July 2010. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based upon our expectations of our operating performance, the anticipated demands on our cash resources, borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities and anticipated borrowing capacity after the maturity of these credit facilities, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations for the short term (defined as the next twelve month period) and our long term obligations, including our planned capacity expansion projects, some of which are discussed below. 17 Repurchases of common stock. At February 19, 2009, we had approximately $63.5 million available for repurchase of our common stock under the authorizations described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital expenditures. We currently estimate we will invest a total of approximately $50 million to $60 million for capital expenditures during 2009. In response to current economic conditions, our planned capital expenditures are limited to those required to properly maintain our equipment and facilities or complete active projects, such as the ongoing construction of a melt furnace at our Morgantown facility. Capital spending for 2009 is expected to be funded by cash flows from operating activities or existing cash resources and available credit facilities. We continue to evaluate additional opportunities to improve or replace productive assets including capital projects, acquisitions or other investments which, if consummated, any required funding would be provided by borrowings under our U.S. or European credit facilities. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we were a party to various agreements at December 31, 2008 that contractually commit us to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2009 2010/2011 2012/2013 2014 & After Total (In millions) Operating leases $ 6.2 $ 10.7 $ 9.2 $ 24.3 $ 50.4 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (1) 107.1 218.9 217.4 639.6 1,183.0 Other (2) 51.9 39.0 41.2 64.3 196.4 Other contractual obligations (3) 9.0 0.5 9.5 $ 174.2 $ 269.1 $ 267.8 $ 728.2 $ 1,439.3 (1) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to LTAs that expire at varying dates (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders or commitments for purchase of raw materials. Certain of the LTAs contain automatic renewal provisions; however, we have only included the purchase commitments associated with the initial terms of each LTA. (2) These obligations generally relate to contractual purchase obligations for conversion services, certain operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2015 (as described in Item 2: Properties), energy purchase obligations with BMI which expire in 2010 and various other open orders for purchase of energy, utilities and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of services purchased, as appropriate. All open orders are primarily for delivery in 2009. (3) These other obligations include an obligation under a workers compensation bond and capital and interest payments under capital lease agreements, both of which are recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. Additionally, we have an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement (ISA) which will be recorded ratably over the 2009 service period. We expect renew the ISA annually. The above table does not reflect any amounts that we might pay to fund our defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans, as the timing and amount of any such future fundings are unknown and dependent on, among other things, the future performance of defined benefit pension plan assets, interest rate assumptions and actual future retiree medical costs. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. Off balance sheet arrangements. We do not have any off balance sheet financing agreements other than the outstanding letters of credit and operating leases discussed in Notes 8 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent accounting pronouncements. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2008, we maintain three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Income or Statements of Cash Flows. We recorded net consolidated pension expense of $4.1 million in 2006, $4.6 million in 2007 and $2.0 million in 2008. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. The discount rate we utilize for determining pension expense or income and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies, composite indices provided by our actuaries and discount rates derived from our expected cash flows for each of our U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. Changes in our discount rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such bond rates during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following discount rate assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2006 and expense in 2007 Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 U.S. Plan 5.90 % 5.90 % 5.75 % U.K. Plan 5.10 % 5.60 % 6.20 % In developing our expected long term rate of return assumptions, we evaluate historical market rates of return and input from our actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. 18 We used the following long term rate of return assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Long term rates of return used for pension expense for the year ended December 31: 2007 2008 2009 U.S. Plan 10.00 % 10.00 % 10.00 % U.K. Plan 6.50 % 6.65 % 6.80 % Lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.00% to 9.50%) would have decreased 2008 pension income by approximately $0.5 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.90% to 5.65%) would have increased our U.S. plans 2008 pension income by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 6.65% to 6.15%) would have increased 2008 pension expense by approximately $0.7 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.60% to 5.35%) would have increased our U.K. plans 2008 pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. All of our U.S. plans assets are invested in the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust sponsored by Contran to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefit plans sponsored by Contran and related companies. A sub account of the CMRT held 8.5% of TIMET common stock at December 31, 2008; however, our plan assets are invested only in the portion of the CMRT that does not hold TIMET common stock. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. Mr. Simmons is the sole trustee of the CMRT. The trustee of the CMRT, along with the CMRTs investment committee, of which Mr. Simmons is a member, actively manages the investments of the CMRT. The trustee and investment committee periodically change the asset mix of the CMRT based upon, among other things, advice from third party advisors and their respective expectations as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. At December 31, 2008, the asset mix for our portion of the CMRT (based on an aggregate asset value of $46.9 million) was 43% debt securities, 47% U.S. equity securities, 6% foreign equity securities and 4% cash and other securities. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, the assumed long term rate of return for our U.S. plan assets that were invested in the CMRT was 10%. In determining the appropriateness of the long term rate of return assumption, we considered, among other things, the historical rates of return, the current and projected asset mix and the investment objectives of the CMRTs managers for our portion of the CMRT. During the history of the CMRT from its inception in 1987 through December 31, 2008, the average annual rate of return earned by our portion of the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the net asset value per unit for each applicable year, has been 11%. For our U.K. plan, as a result of market fluctuations experienced and the strategic movement toward our long term funding and asset allocation strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2008 was 70% equity securities and 30% debt and other securities. Our future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for our U.K. plan is based on our target asset allocation assumption of 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities and all current contributions to the plan are invested wholly in fixed income securities in order to gradually affect the shift. Based on various factors, including economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during each of the preceding years and projected asset mix, our assumed long term rate of return for our pension expense was 6.70% for 2006, 6.50% for 2007 and 6.65% for 2008. Because all contributions continue to be put into fixed income securities, we expect the asset mix for our U.K. plan to continue to move closer to the projected mix, which reflects a higher percentage of fixed income securities. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, we continue to evaluate our expected rate of return annually and adjust it as considered necessary. As part of this evaluation, we considered the historical long term average annual rates of return and recent economic downturn impacting virtually all global equity markets, and based on our evaluation, the recent declines in value for our plans assets are not indicative of a long term trend requiring an adjustment to our long term expected rate of return for any of our defined benefit pension plans. Actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are greater than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial gain, while actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are less than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial loss. All of these actuarial gains and losses are not recognized in earnings currently, but instead are deferred and amortized into income in the future as part of pension expense. However, any actuarial gains generated in future periods reduce the negative amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial losses, while any actuarial losses generated in future periods reduce the favorable amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial gains. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10%, a discount rate of 5.75% and various other assumptions, we estimate that our U.S. plan will have pension expense of approximately $6.7 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2009, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2009, respectively. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.80%, a discount rate of 6.20% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.44/1.00), we estimate that pension expense for our U.K. plan will approximate $8.0 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.6 million in 2009, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.6 million in 2009, respectively. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our pension plans. We made cash contributions of $0.4 million in 2006, $0.1 million in 2007 and nil in 2008 to our U.S. plan and cash contributions of approximately $18.2 million in 2006 and $10.5 million in each of 2007 and 2008 to our U.K. plan. The 2006 contribution to our U.K. plan included a $9.9 million discretionary contribution. Based upon the current funded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2008, we believe that we will be required to make contributions of $7.3 million to our U.K. plan and none to our U.S. plan in 2009. The current global economic downturn has negatively impacted the performance of each plans assets during 2008, and as a result, the fair values of the plans assets have decreased significantly over the last year. The fair value of the assets of the U.S. plan was $93.6 million at December 31, 2006, $98.4 million at December 31, 2007 and $46.9 at December 31, 2008, and the fair value of the assets of the U.K. plan was $189.5 million at December 31, 2006, $202.6 million at December 31, 2007 and $114.9 million at December 31, 2008. The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on our funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). The effect of positive investment returns and an increase in the discount rate increased the overfunded status of the U.S. plan from $17.9 million at December 31, 2006 to $23.4 million at December 31, 2007, and the effect of negative investment returns and a decrease to the discount rate during 2008 resulted in an underfunded status of $30.0 million at December 31, 2008. In 2007 the effect of positive investment returns and an increase in the discount rate for our U.K. plan, more than offset the effect of the weakening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, thereby reducing the underfunded status of the U.K. plan from $51.1 million at December 31, 2006 to $34.8 million at December 31, 2007. During 2008, negative investment returns and a strengthening dollar versus the pound sterling both contributed to an increase in the underfunded status of our U.K. plan while the increase in the discount rate partially offset these effects, thereby increasing the underfunded status for our U.K. plan to $46.2 million at December 31, 2008. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. We provide limited OPEB benefits to a portion of our U.S. employees upon retirement. We fund such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. We paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $1.8 million in 2006 and $1.3 million in each of 2007 and 2008. We recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $3.6 million in 2006, $3.1 million in 2007 and $2.9 million in 2008. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate we utilize for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for our U.S. pension plan. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.90% to 5.65%) would have had a nominal impact on our 2008 OPEB expense. We estimate the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by our actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, we consider industry trends, our actual healthcare cost experience and our future benefit structure. For 2008, we used a beginning health care trend rate of 5.83%. If the health care trend rate were increased or decreased by 1.0% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased or decreased by approximately $0.3 million in 2008, respectively. For 2009, we are using a beginning health care trend rate of 5.46%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2013. 19 Based on a discount rate of 5.75%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, we estimate that OPEB expense will approximate $2.8 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would have a nominal impact on estimated OPEB expense in 2009. A 1.0% increase or decrease in the health care trend rate for each year would increase or decrease the estimated service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2009, respectively. Based upon the actuarial assumptions being used in 2008, we believe we will be required to pay OPEB benefits of $1.9 million in 2009, net of retiree contributions and a Medicare Part D Federal subsidy. Environmental matters. See Business Regulatory and environmental matters in Item 1 and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Affiliate transactions. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. We continuously consider reviews and evaluate such transactions, and understand that Contran and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that we might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of certain related party transactions that we were a party to during 2006, 2007 and 2008. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. We typically do not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage our interest rate market risk. We had no outstanding bank indebtedness at December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our borrowings accrue interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because our bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. Foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. We do not enter into currency forward contracts to manage our foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See Results of Operations European operations in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of our long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate us to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to us that cannot be passed on to our customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to our suppliers that are not passed on to us in the form of lower raw material prices. However, our ability to offset increased material costs with higher selling prices increased in the last several years, as many of our LTAs have either expired or have been renegotiated with price adjustments that take into account raw material, labor and energy cost fluctuations. Securities prices. As of December 31, 2007 and 2008, we held certain marketable securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities. The aggregate market value of these equity securities was $2.7 million at December 31, 2007 and $16.4 million at December 31, 2008. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would have been nominal at December 31, 2007 and $1.6 million at December 31, 2008. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest bearing notes receivable. We held a note receivable from CompX with the principal amount of $50.5 million at December 31, 2007 and $42.7 million at December 31, 2008. Our note receivable accrues interest at variable rates, related to the spread over LIBOR. Because our note receivable reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable is believed to approximate fair value. See Notes 11 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We held a note receivable from Contran with the principal amount of $16.7 million at December 31, 2008. Our note receivable accrues interest at variable rates, related to the spread under prime. Because our note receivable reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable is believed to approximate fair value. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY General overview. We are a vertically integrated producer of titanium sponge, melted products and a variety of mill products for commercial aerospace, military, industrial and other applications. We are one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted products (ingot, electrodes and slab) and mill products (billet, bar, plate, sheet and strip). We are the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium. We are currently the largest producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, in the United States. We sell our titanium melted and mill products into four worldwide market sectors. Aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2008 were derived from the following sectors: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product shipments % of total Mill product shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Commercial aerospace 9,782 65 % 46,900 46 % Military 2,114 14 % 6,400 7 % Industrial 2,855 19 % 43,000 42 % Emerging markets 299 2 % 5,300 5 % 15,050 100 % 101,600 100 % (1) Estimates based on our titanium industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table above, our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. 12 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. We base our estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors we believe to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. We consider the policies and estimates discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their application requires our most significant judgments in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. Inventory valuation. We provide reserves for estimated obsolete or unmarketable inventories equal to the difference between the cost of inventories and the estimated net realizable value using assumptions about future demand for our products, alternate uses of the inventory and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by us, we may be required to recognize additional inventory reserves. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets may not be recoverable, we undertake an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. We did not evaluate any long lived assets for impairment during 2008 because no such impairment indicators were present. Income taxes. We record a valuation allowance if realization of our gross deferred income tax assets is not more likely than not after giving consideration to recent historical results and near term projections, and we also consider the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. We record reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertain Tax Positions, for tax positions where we believe it is more likely than not our position will not prevail with the applicable tax authorities. See Results of Operations Income taxes for discussion of our analysis of our deferred income tax valuation allowances and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our uncertain tax positions. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. Our pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected health care trend rates. We review these rates annually with the assistance of our actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of 2008 to 2007 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2007 % of Total Net Sales 2008 % of Total Net Sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 191.9 15 % $ 115.5 10 % Mill products 952.0 74 % 913.5 79 % Other titanium products 135.0 11 % 122.5 11 % Total net sales 1,278.9 100 % 1,151.5 100 % Cost of sales 831.5 65 % 863.8 75 % Gross margin 447.4 35 % 287.7 25 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 69.0 5 % 66.5 6 % Other expense, net 6.4 1 % 1.5 0 % Operating income $ 372.0 29 % $ 219.7 19 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 4,720 3,850 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 40.65 $ 30.00 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 14,230 15,050 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 66.90 $ 60.70 13 Net sales. Our net sales were $1,151.5 million during 2008 compared to net sales of $1,278.9 million during 2007. Average selling prices for melted and mill products decreased 26% and 9%, respectively, from 2007 to 2008. Revisions and delays in the build out schedules of certain commercial aircraft, and the resulting effects on production and inventory levels throughout the supply chain, continue to negatively impact near term demand and selling prices for titanium products. Recent declines in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, have also contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long term agreements, due in part to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements. Although we believe long term demand trends are favorable, the adjustments and delays in the production schedule for the Boeing 787, including production delays resulting from Boeings labor dispute which was resolved during the fourth quarter of 2008, and the recent decline in global economic conditions, are expected to continue to impact customer inventory levels and product demand in 2009. Cost of sales. Our cost of sales was $863.8 million during 2008 compared to cost of sales of $831.5 million in 2007, a 4% increase from 2007, primarily resulting from a shift in our product mix to a higher concentration of mill products for 2008. Mill products carry a higher unit cost than melted products due to labor, overhead and yield costs associated with additional processing. Cost of sales for 2008 was favorably impacted by declining costs for titanium scrap, but these favorable impacts were substantially offset by higher costs of production, primarily energy, and certain other raw materials. We anticipate that our per unit cost of sales for both melted and mill products will continue to be favorably impacted by declining titanium scrap costs, but these favorable effects could be offset if production volumes decrease, which could result in additional per unit overhead allocations, or if costs of production and other raw materials rise. Gross margin. During 2008, our gross margin was $287.7 million as compared to $447.4 million for 2007, primarily reflecting decreases in the average selling prices for our melted and mill products. Operating income. Our operating income for 2008 was $219.7 million compared to $372.0 million during 2007 primarily due to the decline in gross margin. The 2007 period includes a $6.0 million expense related to previously capitalized costs associated with the planning and engineering for a new VDP sponge plant, based on our decision to delay the project indefinitely. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2008, we recognized other non operating income of $19.4 million consisting primarily of $9.9 million in foreign currency gains as the dollar strengthened against the pound sterling and the euro in the second half of 2008 and a $6.7 million gain on sale of an investment discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2007, we recognized other non operating income of $24.2 million consisting primarily of an $18.3 million gain on the sale of our investment in CompX discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 29% in 2008 compared to 30% in 2007. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate for 2008 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to a change in the mix of our pre tax earnings, with a higher percentage of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions in 2008, primarily as a result of the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization in 2007. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2008 includes: An income tax benefit of $14.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $1.9 million related to the reversal of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of an investment; An income tax benefit of $4.0 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004; and An income tax expense of $2.7 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. Our income tax expense in 2007 includes: An income tax benefit of $12.6 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $6.5 million related primarily to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in CompX; and An income tax benefit of $4.7 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The U.K. has proposed legislation that, if enacted, would increase our effective income tax rate and our cash tax payments. 14 Comparison of 2007 to 2006 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2006 % of Total Net Sales 2007 % of TotalNet Sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 226.0 19 % $ 191.9 15 % Mill products 819.2 69 % 952.0 74 % Other titanium products 138.0 12 % 135.0 11 % Total net sales 1,183.2 100 % 1,278.9 100 % Cost of sales 747.1 63 % 831.5 65 % Gross margin 436.1 37 % 447.4 35 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 67.0 6 % 69.0 5 % Other income (expense), net 13.7 1 % (6.4 ) 1 % Operating income $ 382.8 32 % $ 372.0 29 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,900 4,720 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 38.30 $ 40.65 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 14,160 14,230 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 57.85 $ 66.90 Net sales. During 2007, net sales increased 8% to $1,278.9 million from $1,183.2 million in 2006. Average selling prices for melted and mill products increased 6% and 16%, respectively, in 2007 compared to 2006. Customer demands influenced a shift of our product mix toward an increased proportion of mill products, which require additional processing and resources and also command higher sales prices as compared to melted products. While our combined melted and mill product shipment volume declined during 2007, our mill product shipment volume increased slightly in 2007 compared to the prior year. The increased pricing on our products and the favorable shift in product mix more than offset the effect of lower aggregate sales volume for 2007 compared to 2006. Cost of sales. Our cost of sales increased $84.4 million, or 11%, in 2007 as compared to 2006 due to an increase in certain raw material costs, including titanium sponge and scrap, and higher production costs associated with our shift in product mix to a greater percentage of mill products. The higher cost of sponge in 2007 is partially due to our final utilization in the first half of 2006 of lower cost sponge previously purchased from the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency stockpile and the rapid rise in titanium sponge and scrap market prices experienced through early 2007. In 2007, increases in global titanium sponge capacity and increased use of titanium in the manufacture of components and products resulted in the increased availability of titanium sponge and scrap. As a result, our cost of purchased titanium sponge and scrap declined during the latter part of 2007. These declining raw material costs, in certain cases, resulted in indexed adjustments to selling prices under our long term sales agreements. The majority of the products sold during 2007 included higher cost raw materials acquired during prior periods due to the elapsed time required to convert these raw materials into their final form and to deliver them to our customers. Gross margin. During 2007, our gross margin increased 3% to $447.4 million as compared to 2006 reflecting the net effect of increases in average selling prices, and partially offsetting cost of sales increases associated with our higher raw material costs and higher cost of production, as discussed above. Operating income. Our operating income for 2007 was $372.0 million compared to $382.8 million for 2006. The 2007 period includes a $6.0 million expense related to previously capitalized costs associated with the planning and engineering for a new VDP sponge plant based on our decision to delay the project indefinitely. The 2006 period was positively impacted by $14.1 million of equity in earnings related to our interest in the VALTIMET joint venture that we sold in December 2006, partially offset by $8.6 million of travel, relocation and severance expenses incurred in connection with the relocation of our headquarters to Dallas, Texas and our operational management and information technology group to Exton, Pennsylvania. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2007, we recognized other non operating income of $24.2 million compared to other non operating income of $39.0 million during 2006. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we realized an $18.3 million gain on the sale of our investment in CompX during 2007, and we realized a $40.9 million gain on the sale of our investment in VALTIMET during 2006. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 30% in 2007 compared to 31% in 2006. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate for 2007 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to a change in the mix of our pre tax earnings, with a higher percentage of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions in 2007, primarily as a result of the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization in 2007. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2007 includes: An income tax benefit of $12.6 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $6.5 million related primarily to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in CompX; and An income tax benefit of $4.7 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Our income tax expense in 2006 includes: an income tax benefit of $17.1 million related to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in VALTIMET; an income tax benefit of $2.4 million from the special manufacturing deduction created by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004; and an income tax benefit of $1.0 million related to the elimination of certain items included in other comprehensive income following the sale of our interest in VALTIMET. 15 European operations We have substantial operations located in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 37% of our sales originated in Europe for 2008, a portion of which were denominated in foreign currency, principally the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain raw material costs, principally purchases of titanium sponge and alloys for our European operations, are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of our European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Borrowings of our European operations may be in U.S. dollars or in functional currencies. Our export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. We do not use currency contracts to hedge our currency exposures. At December 31, 2008, consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies were approximately $82.2 million and $54.8 million, respectively, consisting primarily of U.S. dollar cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable. Outlook We sold a record 15,050 metric tons of titanium mill products during 2008, despite softening demand in the fourth quarter of the year. In addition to the global credit crisis and economic recession, circumstances within the commercial aerospace market, including (i) the eight week labor dispute at Boeing, (ii) continued production delays on the Boeing 787 and (iii) the resulting excess titanium inventory in the supply chain, have contributed to weakened customer demand and lower prices for titanium products. We expect customer demand to remain volatile until uncertainties in the global economy and within the commercial aerospace production schedules begin to be resolved and inventory levels begin to stabilize. Although we have long term agreements with a majority of our major customers, many of which specify annual pricing mechanisms and minimum volume commitments that limit our exposure to the volatility of market pricing and fluctuating demand, we still anticipate reductions in our overall sales volumes and average selling prices for 2009. We anticipate that our per unit cost of sales for both melted and mill products will continue to be favorably impacted by declining titanium scrap costs, but these favorable effects could be offset if production volumes decrease, which could result in additional per unit overhead allocations, or if costs of production and other raw materials rise. Despite the demand volatility the industry is currently experiencing and the uncertainty surrounding the extent and duration of the current economic downturn, we believe the overall industry outlook supports a long term favorable trend in demand for titanium products. We continue to pursue our strategic plans to increase and improve our production capabilities, with a focus on opportunities to improve our operating flexibility, efficiency and cost structure, to meet the long term demands reflected in the titanium product volumes our customers have committed to purchase under long term agreements and in long term market sector forecasts. In particular, we continue to enhance our ability to meet our current and prospective customers needs and strengthen our position as a reliable supplier in markets where technical ability and precision are critical. We have been successful over the last two years in establishing significant flexibility and cost advantages in our entire manufacturing process. We believe that our strong customer relationships, efficient manufacturing processes and strong balance sheet have kept us well positioned in the current economic environment. We are in a strong financial position, with no debt and significant positive cash flow. We believe our financial strength will allow us to continue to invest in our business, fully serve our current and prospective customer requirements and pursue strategic opportunities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 79.1 $ 192.1 $ 197.6 Investing activities (26.5 ) (108.2 ) (142.6 ) Financing activities (42.5 ) (24.5 ) (97.7 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities $ 10.1 $ 59.4 $ (42.7 ) Operating activities. Cash flow from operations is considered a primary source of our liquidity. Changes in pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect our liquidity. Cash provided by operating activities increased $5.5 million, from $192.1 million in 2007 to $197.6 in 2008. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: lower operating income in 2008 of $152.3 million; lower net cash used in operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities of $42.1 million in 2008 in response to changing working capital requirements and improved collections of receivables; and lower net cash paid for income taxes in 2008 of $105.0 million due primarily to lower taxable income in 2008. Cash provided by operating activities increased $113.0 million, from $79.1 million in 2006 to $192.1 million in 2007. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: lower operating income in 2007 of $10.8 million; the $50.0 million payment made to Haynes in 2006 in return for the dedicated rolling capacity; lower net cash used in operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities of $95.8 million in 2007 in response to changing working capital requirements; and higher net cash paid for income taxes in 2007 of $65.8 million due to the utilization of the remainder of our U.S. net operating loss carryforward in 2006. 16 Investing activities. Cash flows used in our investing activities changed from $26.5 million in 2006 to $108.2 million in 2007 to $142.6 million in 2008. Our capital expenditures were $100.9 million during both 2006 and 2007 compared to $121.3 million in 2008. Capital projects and other significant investing activities include the following: During 2008, we incurred a higher level of expenditures related to the EB melt capacity expansion project at our facility in Morgantown and other capacity expansion projects at several of our U.S. and European plants. During 2007, we had lower capital expenditures on the sponge capacity expansion project compared to 2006, as the expansion was completed in April 2007. However, during 2007 we incurred a higher level of expenditures than we incurred during 2006 related to the EB melt capacity expansion project at our facility in Morgantown and other capacity expansion projects initiated in 2007 which largely offset the 2007 expenditure reductions on the sponge plant expansion project. The 2006 capital expenditure amount includes expenditures related to our sponge plant expansion in Henderson, which became fully operational in 2007, and our EB furnace at our facility in Morgantown, which became operational in early 2008. We purchased $26.4 million in marketable equity securities during 2008. We received principal payments on notes receivable from affiliates of $2.6 million in 2007 and $7.3 million in 2008. We received proceeds of $75.0 million from the sale of our interest in VALTIMET during 2006. Financing activities. We had net repayments under our U.S. bank credit facility of $52.7 million in 2006, funded primarily with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our interest in VALTIMET. We had no net borrowing activity during 2007 and 2008. Other significant items included in our cash flows from financing activities included: dividends paid on our common stock of $13.7 million in 2007 and $54.5 million in 2008, as we began paying a quarterly dividend of $0.075 per share in the fourth quarter of 2007; dividends paid on our Series A Preferred Stock of $7.2 million in 2006, $5.6 million in 2007 and $0.3 million in 2008; dividends paid to CEZUS of $3.0 million in 2006, $8.1 million in 2007 and $6.8 million in 2008; treasury stock purchases of $36.5 million during 2008; proceeds from the issuance of our common stock upon exercise of stock options of $11.3 million in 2006, $1.0 million in 2007 and a nominal amount in 2008; and an income tax benefit of $9.9 million in 2006, $2.1 million in 2007 and a nominal amount in 2008 related to the exercise of stock options. Future cash requirements Liquidity. Our primary source of liquidity on an ongoing basis is our cash flows from operating activities and borrowings under various credit facilities. We generally use these amounts to (i) fund capital expenditures, (ii) repay indebtedness incurred primarily for working capital purposes and (iii) provide for the payment of dividends. From time to time we will incur indebtedness, generally to (i) fund short term working capital needs, (ii) refinance existing indebtedness, (iii) make investments in marketable and other securities (including the acquisition of securities issued by our subsidiaries and affiliates) or (iv) fund major capital expenditures or the acquisition of other assets outside the ordinary course of business. We routinely evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, we have in the past, or in light of our current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify our common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, we investigate, evaluate, discuss and engage in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, we may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. We paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.075 per share in 2007 and four such quarterly cash dividends in 2008. In February 2009, our board of directors decided to suspend our quarterly dividend after considering the current economic and financial environment. We believe it is in our best interest to enhance our financial strength which will allow us to continue investing in our business and taking advantage of potential opportunities in our industry, including acquisitions, long term partnering agreements or joint ventures, if and when such strategic opportunities arise. Additionally, we will have the flexibility to repurchase shares of our common stock under our previously announced repurchase programs without sacrificing our ability to pursue other opportunities in our industry. The declaration and payment of future dividends will be dependent upon the boards consideration of our cash requirements, contractual requirements, strategic plans and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. At December 31, 2008, we had aggregate borrowing availability under our existing U.S and European credit facilities of $213.5 million, and we had an aggregate of $45.0 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our U.S. credit facility matures in February 2011, and our U.K. credit facility matures in July 2010. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based upon our expectations of our operating performance, the anticipated demands on our cash resources, borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities and anticipated borrowing capacity after the maturity of these credit facilities, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations for the short term (defined as the next twelve month period) and our long term obligations, including our planned capacity expansion projects, some of which are discussed below. 17 Repurchases of common stock. At February 19, 2009, we had approximately $63.5 million available for repurchase of our common stock under the authorizations described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital expenditures. We currently estimate we will invest a total of approximately $50 million to $60 million for capital expenditures during 2009. In response to current economic conditions, our planned capital expenditures are limited to those required to properly maintain our equipment and facilities or complete active projects, such as the ongoing construction of a melt furnace at our Morgantown facility. Capital spending for 2009 is expected to be funded by cash flows from operating activities or existing cash resources and available credit facilities. We continue to evaluate additional opportunities to improve or replace productive assets including capital projects, acquisitions or other investments which, if consummated, any required funding would be provided by borrowings under our U.S. or European credit facilities. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we were a party to various agreements at December 31, 2008 that contractually commit us to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2009 2010/2011 2012/2013 2014 & After Total (In millions) Operating leases $ 6.2 $ 10.7 $ 9.2 $ 24.3 $ 50.4 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (1) 107.1 218.9 217.4 639.6 1,183.0 Other (2) 51.9 39.0 41.2 64.3 196.4 Other contractual obligations (3) 9.0 0.5 9.5 $ 174.2 $ 269.1 $ 267.8 $ 728.2 $ 1,439.3 (1) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to LTAs that expire at varying dates (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders or commitments for purchase of raw materials. Certain of the LTAs contain automatic renewal provisions; however, we have only included the purchase commitments associated with the initial terms of each LTA. (2) These obligations generally relate to contractual purchase obligations for conversion services, certain operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2015 (as described in Item 2: Properties), energy purchase obligations with BMI which expire in 2010 and various other open orders for purchase of energy, utilities and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of services purchased, as appropriate. All open orders are primarily for delivery in 2009. (3) These other obligations include an obligation under a workers compensation bond and capital and interest payments under capital lease agreements, both of which are recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. Additionally, we have an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement (ISA) which will be recorded ratably over the 2009 service period. We expect renew the ISA annually. The above table does not reflect any amounts that we might pay to fund our defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans, as the timing and amount of any such future fundings are unknown and dependent on, among other things, the future performance of defined benefit pension plan assets, interest rate assumptions and actual future retiree medical costs. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. Off balance sheet arrangements. We do not have any off balance sheet financing agreements other than the outstanding letters of credit and operating leases discussed in Notes 8 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent accounting pronouncements. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2008, we maintain three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Income or Statements of Cash Flows. We recorded net consolidated pension expense of $4.1 million in 2006, $4.6 million in 2007 and $2.0 million in 2008. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. The discount rate we utilize for determining pension expense or income and pension obligations is based on a review of long term bonds (10 to 15 year maturities) that receive one of the two highest ratings given by recognized rating agencies, composite indices provided by our actuaries and discount rates derived from our expected cash flows for each of our U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. Changes in our discount rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such bond rates during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following discount rate assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2006 and expense in 2007 Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 U.S. Plan 5.90 % 5.90 % 5.75 % U.K. Plan 5.10 % 5.60 % 6.20 % In developing our expected long term rate of return assumptions, we evaluate historical market rates of return and input from our actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. 18 We used the following long term rate of return assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Long term rates of return used for pension expense for the year ended December 31: 2007 2008 2009 U.S. Plan 10.00 % 10.00 % 10.00 % U.K. Plan 6.50 % 6.65 % 6.80 % Lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.00% to 9.50%) would have decreased 2008 pension income by approximately $0.5 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.90% to 5.65%) would have increased our U.S. plans 2008 pension income by approximately $0.1 million. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 6.65% to 6.15%) would have increased 2008 pension expense by approximately $0.7 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.60% to 5.35%) would have increased our U.K. plans 2008 pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. All of our U.S. plans assets are invested in the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust sponsored by Contran to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefit plans sponsored by Contran and related companies. A sub account of the CMRT held 8.5% of TIMET common stock at December 31, 2008; however, our plan assets are invested only in the portion of the CMRT that does not hold TIMET common stock. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. Mr. Simmons is the sole trustee of the CMRT. The trustee of the CMRT, along with the CMRTs investment committee, of which Mr. Simmons is a member, actively manages the investments of the CMRT. The trustee and investment committee periodically change the asset mix of the CMRT based upon, among other things, advice from third party advisors and their respective expectations as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. At December 31, 2008, the asset mix for our portion of the CMRT (based on an aggregate asset value of $46.9 million) was 43% debt securities, 47% U.S. equity securities, 6% foreign equity securities and 4% cash and other securities. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, the assumed long term rate of return for our U.S. plan assets that were invested in the CMRT was 10%. In determining the appropriateness of the long term rate of return assumption, we considered, among other things, the historical rates of return, the current and projected asset mix and the investment objectives of the CMRTs managers for our portion of the CMRT. During the history of the CMRT from its inception in 1987 through December 31, 2008, the average annual rate of return earned by our portion of the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the net asset value per unit for each applicable year, has been 11%. For our U.K. plan, as a result of market fluctuations experienced and the strategic movement toward our long term funding and asset allocation strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2008 was 70% equity securities and 30% debt and other securities. Our future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for our U.K. plan is based on our target asset allocation assumption of 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities and all current contributions to the plan are invested wholly in fixed income securities in order to gradually affect the shift. Based on various factors, including economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during each of the preceding years and projected asset mix, our assumed long term rate of return for our pension expense was 6.70% for 2006, 6.50% for 2007 and 6.65% for 2008. Because all contributions continue to be put into fixed income securities, we expect the asset mix for our U.K. plan to continue to move closer to the projected mix, which reflects a higher percentage of fixed income securities. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, we continue to evaluate our expected rate of return annually and adjust it as considered necessary. As part of this evaluation, we considered the historical long term average annual rates of return and recent economic downturn impacting virtually all global equity markets, and based on our evaluation, the recent declines in value for our plans assets are not indicative of a long term trend requiring an adjustment to our long term expected rate of return for any of our defined benefit pension plans. Actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are greater than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial gain, while actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are less than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial loss. All of these actuarial gains and losses are not recognized in earnings currently, but instead are deferred and amortized into income in the future as part of pension expense. However, any actuarial gains generated in future periods reduce the negative amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial losses, while any actuarial losses generated in future periods reduce the favorable amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial gains. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10%, a discount rate of 5.75% and various other assumptions, we estimate that our U.S. plan will have pension expense of approximately $6.7 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2009, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2009, respectively. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.80%, a discount rate of 6.20% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.44/1.00), we estimate that pension expense for our U.K. plan will approximate $8.0 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.6 million in 2009, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.6 million in 2009, respectively. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our pension plans. We made cash contributions of $0.4 million in 2006, $0.1 million in 2007 and nil in 2008 to our U.S. plan and cash contributions of approximately $18.2 million in 2006 and $10.5 million in each of 2007 and 2008 to our U.K. plan. The 2006 contribution to our U.K. plan included a $9.9 million discretionary contribution. Based upon the current funded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2008, we believe that we will be required to make contributions of $7.3 million to our U.K. plan and none to our U.S. plan in 2009. The current global economic downturn has negatively impacted the performance of each plans assets during 2008, and as a result, the fair values of the plans assets have decreased significantly over the last year. The fair value of the assets of the U.S. plan was $93.6 million at December 31, 2006, $98.4 million at December 31, 2007 and $46.9 at December 31, 2008, and the fair value of the assets of the U.K. plan was $189.5 million at December 31, 2006, $202.6 million at December 31, 2007 and $114.9 million at December 31, 2008. The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on our funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). The effect of positive investment returns and an increase in the discount rate increased the overfunded status of the U.S. plan from $17.9 million at December 31, 2006 to $23.4 million at December 31, 2007, and the effect of negative investment returns and a decrease to the discount rate during 2008 resulted in an underfunded status of $30.0 million at December 31, 2008. In 2007 the effect of positive investment returns and an increase in the discount rate for our U.K. plan, more than offset the effect of the weakening dollar compared to the British pound sterling, thereby reducing the underfunded status of the U.K. plan from $51.1 million at December 31, 2006 to $34.8 million at December 31, 2007. During 2008, negative investment returns and a strengthening dollar versus the pound sterling both contributed to an increase in the underfunded status of our U.K. plan while the increase in the discount rate partially offset these effects, thereby increasing the underfunded status for our U.K. plan to $46.2 million at December 31, 2008. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. We provide limited OPEB benefits to a portion of our U.S. employees upon retirement. We fund such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. We paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $1.8 million in 2006 and $1.3 million in each of 2007 and 2008. We recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $3.6 million in 2006, $3.1 million in 2007 and $2.9 million in 2008. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate we utilize for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is the same as that used for our U.S. pension plan. Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.90% to 5.65%) would have had a nominal impact on our 2008 OPEB expense. We estimate the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by our actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, we consider industry trends, our actual healthcare cost experience and our future benefit structure. For 2008, we used a beginning health care trend rate of 5.83%. If the health care trend rate were increased or decreased by 1.0% for each year, OPEB expense would have increased or decreased by approximately $0.3 million in 2008, respectively. For 2009, we are using a beginning health care trend rate of 5.46%, which is projected to reduce to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2013. 19 Based on a discount rate of 5.75%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, we estimate that OPEB expense will approximate $2.8 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would have a nominal impact on estimated OPEB expense in 2009. A 1.0% increase or decrease in the health care trend rate for each year would increase or decrease the estimated service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.3 million in 2009, respectively. Based upon the actuarial assumptions being used in 2008, we believe we will be required to pay OPEB benefits of $1.9 million in 2009, net of retiree contributions and a Medicare Part D Federal subsidy. Environmental matters. See Business Regulatory and environmental matters in Item 1 and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Affiliate transactions. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. We continuously consider reviews and evaluate such transactions, and understand that Contran and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that we might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of certain related party transactions that we were a party to during 2006, 2007 and 2008. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. We typically do not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage our interest rate market risk. We had no outstanding bank indebtedness at December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our borrowings accrue interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because our bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. Foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. We do not enter into currency forward contracts to manage our foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See Results of Operations European operations in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of our long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate us to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to us that cannot be passed on to our customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to our suppliers that are not passed on to us in the form of lower raw material prices. However, our ability to offset increased material costs with higher selling prices increased in the last several years, as many of our LTAs have either expired or have been renegotiated with price adjustments that take into account raw material, labor and energy cost fluctuations. Securities prices. As of December 31, 2007 and 2008, we held certain marketable securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities. The aggregate market value of these equity securities was $2.7 million at December 31, 2007 and $16.4 million at December 31, 2008. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would have been nominal at December 31, 2007 and $1.6 million at December 31, 2008. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest bearing notes receivable. We held a note receivable from CompX with the principal amount of $50.5 million at December 31, 2007 and $42.7 million at December 31, 2008. Our note receivable accrues interest at variable rates, related to the spread over LIBOR. Because our note receivable reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable is believed to approximate fair value. See Notes 11 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We held a note receivable from Contran with the principal amount of $16.7 million at December 31, 2008. Our note receivable accrues interest at variable rates, related to the spread under prime. Because our note receivable reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable is believed to approximate fair value. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
