Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), are forward looking statements that represent our beliefs and assumptions based on currently available information. Forward looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believes, intends, may, will, looks, should, could, anticipates, expects or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, we do not know if these expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Actual future results could differ materially from those described in such forward looking statements, and we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including risks and uncertainties in those portions referenced above and those described from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) which include, but are not limited to: the cyclicality of the commercial aerospace industry; the performance of our customers and us under our long term agreements; the existence or renewal of certain long term agreements; the difficulty in forecasting demand for titanium products; global economic, financial and political conditions; global productive capacity for titanium; changes in product pricing and costs; the impact of long term contracts with vendors on our ability to reduce or increase supply; the possibility of labor disruptions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; fluctuations in the market price of marketable securities; uncertainties associated with new product or new market development; the availability of raw materials and services; changes in raw material prices and other operating costs (including energy costs); possible disruption of business or increases in the cost of doing business resulting from terrorist activities or global conflicts; competitive products and strategies; and other risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize (or the consequences of such a development worsen), or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those forecasted or expected. 1 PART I ITEM 1: BUSINESS General. Titanium Metals Corporation is one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted and mill products. We are the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium consumption. We are currently the largest U.S. producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, and a major recycler of titanium scrap. Titanium Metals Corporation was formed in 1950 and was incorporated in Delaware in 1955. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to we, us or our refer to TIMET and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Titanium was first manufactured for commercial use in the 1950s. Titaniums unique combination of corrosion resistance, elevated temperature performance and high strength to weight ratio makes it particularly desirable for use in commercial and military aerospace applications where these qualities satisfy essential design requirements for certain critical parts such as wing supports and jet engine components. While aerospace applications have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the worldwide demand for titanium, other end use applications for titanium in military and industrial markets have continued to develop, including the use of titanium based alloys in armor plating, structural components, chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Demand for titanium is also increasing in emerging markets with diverse uses including oil and gas production installations, automotive, geothermal facilities and architectural applications. Our products include titanium sponge, melted products, mill products and industrial fabrications. The titanium industry is comprised of several manufacturers that, like us, produce a relatively complete range of titanium products and a significant number of producers worldwide that manufacture a limited range of titanium mill products. Our long term strategy is to maximize the value of our core aerospace business while expanding our presence in non aerospace markets and developing new applications and products. Our existing productive capacity and the availability of our secure third party conversion capabilities allow us to efficiently respond to the industrys demand volatility. As the titanium industry progresses through its demand cycle, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to strategically expand our existing production and conversion capacities through internal expansion and long term third party arrangements, as well as potential joint ventures and acquisitions. Titanium industry. We develop certain industry estimates based on our extensive experience within the titanium industry as well as information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). We estimate we accounted for approximately 16% of 2008 and 18% of 2009 worldwide industry shipments of titanium mill products and approximately 6% of worldwide titanium sponge production in each of 2008 and 2009. The following chart illustrates our estimates of aggregate industry mill product shipments over the past ten years: Industry Mill Product Shipments by Sector (Volumes Exclude Shipments within China and Russia) The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the historical fluctuations in titanium mill product shipment volume. Over the past 30 years, the titanium industry has had various cyclical peaks and troughs in mill product shipments. Over the last ten years, titanium mill product demand in the military, industrial and emerging market sectors has increased, primarily due to the continued development of innovative uses for titanium products in these industries. Over the last several years we, and the industry as a whole, have experienced significantly increased demand with periods of increased volatility. We estimate that industry shipments approximated 95,000 metric tons in 2008 and 65,000 metric tons in 2009. The estimated 32% decline in 2009 was driven by significant reductions in the commercial aerospace and industrial sectors. We currently expect 2010 total industry mill product shipments to be consistent with 2009 with slight improvements in commercial aerospace. Commercial aerospace sector Demand for titanium products within the commercial aerospace sector is derived from both jet engine components (e.g., blades, discs, rings and engine cases) and airframe components (e.g., bulkheads, tail sections, landing gear, wing supports and fasteners). The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers. Industry shipments decreased approximately 26% in 2009 due in part to excess supply chain inventories, particularly as a result of adjustments to production schedules for Boeing and Airbus, and other factors, including delays in the completion of development and testing of the Boeing 787, which suppressed customer demand for titanium products during 2009. Deliveries of titanium generally precede aircraft deliveries by about one year, and our business cycle generally correlates to this timeline, although the actual timeline can vary considerably depending on the titanium product. Our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. We shipped approximately 67% of our mill products to the commercial aerospace sector in 2009, whereas we estimate approximately 46% of the overall titanium industrys mill products were shipped to the commercial aerospace sector in 2009. The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, traditionally issues worldwide forecasts each January and July for commercial aircraft deliveries, approximately one third of which are expected to be required by the U.S. over the next 20 years. The Airline Monitors most recently issued forecast (January 2010) estimates deliveries of large commercial aircraft (aircraft with over 100 seats) totaled 1,061 (including 205 twin aisle aircraft which require more titanium) in 2009, and the following table summarizes the forecasted deliveries of large commercial aircraft over the next five years: Forecasted deliveries % increase (decrease) over previous year Year Total Twin aisle Total Twin aisle 2010 1,020 220 (4)% 7% 2011 1,070 302 5% 37% 2012 1,065 310 3% 2013 1,070 335 8% 2014 1,035 365 (3)% 9% The latest forecast from The Airline Monitor reflects a moderate 1.6% decrease in forecasted deliveries over the next five years compared to the July 2009 forecast, mainly due to The Airline Monitors expectation that in spite of push outs and cancellations due to the recent reduction in air travel, demand for more fuel efficient aircraft and growth within the Asian markets will allow build rates to remain near current levels. Boeing and Airbus booked orders for 573 planes in 2009, and The Airline Monitor forecasts that aggregate new orders in 2010 will be lower than 2009. 2 Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of airlines can result in rescheduling or cancellation of orders. Accordingly, aircraft manufacturer backlogs are not necessarily a reliable indicator of near term business activity, but may be indicative of potential business levels over a longer term horizon. The latest forecast from The Airline Monitor estimates decreases for firm order backlog for both Airbus and Boeing as deliveries are expected to be higher than orders for the next three years. Airbus firm order backlog is estimated at 1,085 twin aisle planes and 2,403 single aisle planes, and Boeings firm order backlog is estimated at 1,299 twin aisle planes and 2,049 single aisle planes. Boeing has previously announced that its does not plan to increase its build rates on the 787 aircraft to make up for delayed deliveries, with the first commercial deliveries expected in late 2010. At year end 2009, a total of 202 firm orders have been placed for the Airbus A380, and a total of 851 firm orders have been placed for the Boeing 787. The 787 will contain more composite materials than other Boeing aircraft, and increased utilization of composite materials in an aircrafts structural components, such as on the Boeing 787 and other next generation aircraft, require additional titanium on a per unit basis. In early years of the manufacturing cycle for the Boeing 787, or with any aircraft model, we believe additional titanium will be required to produce each aircraft, and as the program reaches maturity, less titanium will be required for each aircraft manufactured. During 2006, Airbus officially launched the A350 XWB program, which is a major derivative of the Airbus A330, with first deliveries scheduled for 2013. As of December 31, 2009, a total of 505 firm orders had been placed for the A350 XWB. These A350 XWBs will use composite materials and new engines similar to those used on the Boeing 787 and are expected to require significantly more titanium as compared with earlier Airbus models. However, the final titanium buy weight may change as the A350 XWB is still in the design phase. Twin aisle planes (e.g., Boeing 747, 767, 777 and 787 and Airbus A330, A340, A350 and A380) tend to use a higher percentage of titanium in their airframes, engines and parts than single aisle planes (e.g., Boeing 737 and 757 and Airbus A318, A319 and A320), and new generation models require a significantly higher percentage of titanium. Additionally, Boeing generally uses a higher percentage of titanium in its airframes than Airbus. Based on information we receive from airframe and engine manufacturers and other industry sources, we estimate approximately 18 metric tons of titanium products are required to manufacture each Boeing 737, approximately 76 metric tons are required to manufacture each Boeing 747, approximately 59 metric tons are required to manufacture each Boeing 777 and approximately 116 metric tons will be required to manufacture each Boeing 787, including both the airframes and engines. Additionally, based on these same sources, we estimate approximately 12 metric tons of titanium products are required to manufacture each Airbus A320, approximately 18 metric tons are required to manufacture each Airbus A330, approximately 32 metric tons are required to manufacture each Airbus A340, approximately 127 metric tons will be required to manufacture each Airbus A350 XWB and approximately 146 metric tons are required to manufacture each Airbus A380, including both the airframes and engines. Military sector Titanium shipments into the military sector are largely driven by government defense spending in North America and Europe. Military aerospace programs were the first to utilize titaniums unique properties on a large scale, beginning in the 1950s. Titanium shipments to military aerospace markets reached a peak in the 1980s before falling to historical lows in the early 1990s after the end of the Cold War. Since 2001, titanium shipments to military aerospace have increased, as discussed below. Based on its physical and performance properties, titanium has also become widely accepted for use in applications for ground combat vehicles as well as in naval vessels. The importance of military markets to the titanium industry is expected to continue to rise in coming years as defense spending budgets increase in reaction to terrorist activities and global conflicts and to replace aging conventional armaments. Defense spending for most systems is expected to remain strong through at least 2010. Current and anticipated future military strategy leading to light armament and mobility favor the use of titanium due to light weight and improved ballistic performance. As the strategic military environment demands greater global lift and mobility, the U.S. military needs more airlift capacity and capability. Airframe programs are expected to drive the military market demand for titanium through 2015. Several of todays active U.S. military programs, including the C 17, F 15, F/A 18 and F 16, are currently expected to continue in production into the middle of this decade. European military programs also have active aerospace programs offering the possibility for increased titanium consumption. Production levels for the Saab Gripen, Eurofighter Typhoon, Dassault Rafale and Dassault Mirage 2000 are all forecasted to remain steady through the middle or end of this decade. In addition to the established programs, newer U.S. programs offer growth opportunities for increased titanium consumption. The F/A 22 Raptor was given full rate production approval in April 2005, but based on proposed defense budgets, the Raptor program could be diminished or phased out as early as 2011. Additionally, the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter, now known as the Lightning II, has begun low rate initial production and assembly with delivery of the first production aircraft planned in 2010. Although no specific delivery schedules have been announced, according to The Teal Group, a leading aerospace publication, procurement of the F 35 is expected to extend over the next 30 to 40 years and may include production of as many as 4,000 planes, including sales to foreign nations. Utilization of titanium on military ground combat vehicles for armor appliqu and integrated armor or structural components continues to gain acceptance within the military market segment. Titanium armor components provide the necessary ballistic performance while achieving a mission critical vehicle performance objective of reduced weight in new generation vehicles. In order to counteract increased threat levels globally, titanium is being utilized on vehicle upgrade programs in addition to new builds. Based on active programs, as well as programs currently under evaluation, we believe there will be additional usage of titanium on ground combat vehicles that will provide continued growth in the military market sector. In armor and armament, we sell plate and sheet products for fabrication into appliqu plate and reactive armor for protection of the entire ground combat vehicle as well as the vehicles primary structure. Industrial and emerging markets sectors The number of end use markets for titanium has expanded significantly over the past several years. Established industrial uses for titanium include chemical plants, power plants, desalination plants and pollution control equipment. Rapid growth of the Chinese and other Southeast Asian economies has brought unprecedented demand for titanium intensive industrial equipment. In November 2005, we entered into a joint venture with XIAN BAOTIMET VALINOX TUBES CO. LTD. (BAOTIMET) to produce welded titanium tubing in the Peoples Republic of China. BAOTIMETs production facilities are located in Xian, China, and production began in January 2007. Titanium is widely accepted for many emerging market applications, including transportation, energy (including oil and gas) and architecture. Although titanium is often more expensive than other competing metals, over the entire life cycle of the application, we believe titanium is a better value alternative due to its durability, longevity and overall environmental impact. In many cases customers also find the physical properties of titanium to be attractive from the standpoint of weight, performance, design alternatives and other factors. The oil and gas market, a relatively new, potentially large growth area, utilizes titanium in down hole casing, critical riser components, tapered stress joints, fire water systems and saltwater cooling systems. Additionally, as offshore development of new oil and gas fields moves into the ultra deep water depths and as geothermal energy production expands, market demand for titaniums light weight, high strength and corrosion resistance properties is creating new growth opportunities. We have focused additional resources on development of alloys and production processes to promote the expansion of titanium use in this market and in other non aerospace applications. Although we estimate emerging market demand presently represents less than 5% of the total industry demand for titanium mill products, we believe emerging market demand, in the aggregate, will continue to grow over the next several years. We have ongoing initiatives to actively pursue and expand our presence in these markets. Products and operations. We are a vertically integrated titanium manufacturer whose products include: (i) titanium sponge, the basic form of titanium metal used in titanium products; (ii) melted products (ingot, electrode and slab), the result of melting titanium sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with various alloys; (iii) mill products that are forged and rolled from ingot or slab, including long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe; and (iv) fabrications (spools, pipe fittings, manifolds, vessels, etc.) that are cut, formed, welded and assembled from titanium mill products. All of our net sales were generated by our integrated titanium operations (our Titanium melted and mill products segment), which is our only business segment. Business and geographic financial information is included in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Titanium sponge is the commercially pure, elemental form of titanium metal with a porous and sponge like appearance. The first step in our sponge production involves the combination of titanium containing rutile ores (derived from beach sand) with chlorine and petroleum coke to produce titanium tetrachloride. Titanium tetrachloride is purified and then reacted with magnesium in a closed system, producing titanium sponge and magnesium chloride as a by product. Our titanium sponge production facility in Henderson, Nevada uses vacuum distillation process (VDP) technology, which removes the magnesium and magnesium chloride residues by applying heat to the sponge mass while maintaining a vacuum in a chamber. The combination of heat and vacuum boils the residues from the sponge mass, and then the sponge mass is mechanically pushed out of the distillation vessel, sheared and crushed to prepare the sponge for incorporation into one of our melted products. We electrolytically separate and recycle the residual magnesium chloride, a by product of the VDP process, to improve cost efficiency and reduce environmental impact. Melted products (ingot, electrode and slab) are produced by melting sponge and titanium scrap, either alone or with alloys, to produce various grades of titanium products suited to the ultimate application of the product. By introducing other alloys such as vanadium, aluminum, molybdenum, tin and zirconium, the melted titanium product is engineered to produce quality grades with varying combinations of certain physical attributes such as strength to weight ratio, corrosion resistance and milling compatibility. Titanium ingot is a cylindrical solid shape that, in our case, weighs up to 8 metric tons. Titanium slab is a rectangular solid shape that, in our case, weighs up to 16 metric tons. The melting process for ingot and slab is closely controlled and monitored utilizing computer control systems to maintain product quality and consistency and to meet customer specifications. In most cases, we use our ingot and slab as the intermediate material for further processing into mill products. However, we also sell melted products to our customers. Mill products are forged or rolled from our melted products (ingot or slab). Mill products include long products (billet and bar), flat products (plate, sheet and strip) and pipe. Our mill products can be further machined to meet customer specifications with respect to size and finish. 3 We send certain products to outside vendors for further processing (e.g., certain rolling, forging, finishing and other processing steps in the U.S., and certain melting and forging steps in France) before being shipped to customers. In France, our primary processor is also a partner in our 70% owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie, S.A. During 2006, we entered into a 20 year conversion services agreement with a U.S. supplier, whereby they will provide an annual output capacity of 4,500 metric tons of titanium mill rolling services until 2026, with our option to increase the output capacity to 9,000 metric tons. Additionally, during 2007, we entered into a long term agreement with another U.S. supplier whereby they will provide us dedicated annual forging capacity of 3,000 metric tons and increasing to 8,900 metric tons for 2011 through at least 2019. These agreements provide us with long term secure sources for processing round and flat products, resulting in a significant increase in our existing mill product conversion capabilities, which allows us to assure our customers of our long term ability to meet their needs. During the production process and following the completion of manufacturing, we perform extensive testing on our products. Sonic inspection as well as chemical and mechanical testing procedures are critical to ensuring that our products meet our customers high quality requirements, particularly in aerospace component production. We certify that our products meet customer specification at the time of shipment for substantially all customer orders. Titanium scrap is a by product of the forging, rolling and machining operations, and significant quantities of scrap are generated in the production process for finished titanium products and components. Scrap by products from our mill production processes, as well as the scrap purchased from our customers or on the open metals market, is typically recycled and introduced into the melting process once the scrap is sorted and cleaned. We have the capacity to recycle 14,000 to 16,000 metric tons of titanium scrap annually at our facility in Morgantown, Pennsylvania depending on the scrap and end use product mix. We believe our capability and expertise in recycling titanium scrap provides us with a competitive advantage in the titanium industry. Distribution. We sell our products through our own sales force based in the U.S. and Europe and through independent agents and distributors worldwide. We also own eight service centers (five in the U.S. and three in Europe), which we use to sell our products on a just in time basis. The service centers primarily sell value added and customized mill products, including bar, sheet, plate, tubing and strip. We believe our service centers provide us with a competitive advantage because of our ability to foster customer relationships, customize products to suit specific customer requirements and respond quickly to customer needs. Raw materials. The principal raw materials used in the production of titanium melted and mill products are titanium sponge, titanium scrap and alloys. The proportions and grades of sponge and scrap are sometimes dictated by the product mix or customer requirements for the end use product; however, we generally have the operating flexibility to vary the raw material components to optimize our manufacturing efficiency and maximize our profitability. The following table summarizes our raw material usage requirements in the production of our melted and mill products: 2007 2008 2009 Internally produced sponge 24% 24% 27% Purchased sponge 31% 31% 16% Titanium scrap 39% 39% 51% Alloys 6% 6% 6% Total 100% 100% 100% Sponge The primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge are titanium containing rutile ore, chlorine, magnesium and petroleum coke. Rutile ore is currently available from a limited number of suppliers around the world, principally located in Australia, South Africa and Sri Lanka. We purchase the majority of our supply of rutile ore from Australia and South Africa. We believe the availability of rutile ore will be adequate for the foreseeable future and do not anticipate any interruptions of our rutile supplies. We currently obtain chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson, Nevada. While we do not anticipate any chlorine supply problems, we have taken steps to mitigate this risk in the event of supply disruption, including establishing the feasibility of certain equipment modifications to enable us to utilize material from alternative chlorine suppliers or to purchase and utilize an intermediate product which will allow us to eliminate the purchase of chlorine if needed. Magnesium and petroleum coke are generally available from a number of suppliers. We are currently the largest U.S. producer of titanium sponge. In 2007, we completed an expansion of our existing premium grade titanium sponge facility at our Henderson plant. This expansion increased our annual productive sponge capacity to approximately 12,600 metric tons. We operated our sponge plant significantly below full capacity during 2009, and we anticipate comparable production volumes during 2010. We supplement our internally produced sponge with purchases from third parties. From 2006 through 2009, other sponge producers have also undertaken additional capacity expansion projects. However, we do not know the degree to which the quality and cost of the sponge produced by our competitors will be comparable to the premium grade sponge we produce in our Henderson facility. We are party to long term sponge supply agreements that require us to make minimum annual purchases. These long term supply agreements, together with our current sponge production capacity in Henderson, should provide us with a total annual available sponge supply at levels ranging from 19,000 metric tons up to 24,000 metric tons through 2025, which we expect to meet our sponge supply requirements. We will continue to purchase sponge from a variety of sources in 2010, including those sources under existing supply agreements. We continuously evaluate alternatives to strategically balance our internal and external sources for titanium sponge. Scrap We recycle titanium scrap into melted products that will be sold to our customers or used as intermediate feedstock for our mill production process. Our titanium scrap is generated from our melted and mill product production processes, purchased from certain of our customers under contractual agreements or acquired in the open metals market. Such scrap consists of alloyed and commercially pure solids and turnings. Scrap obtained through customer arrangements provides a closed loop arrangement resulting in certainty of supply and price stability, and due to our successful efforts to increase the volume of scrap obtained through closed loop arrangements and reduced melting demand in 2009, we were only required to purchase 16% of our scrap requirement from the open metals market in 2009 compared to 27% in 2008. Externally purchased scrap comes from a wide range of sources, including customers, collectors, processors and brokers. We expect our open market scrap purchases to account for 20% to 25% of our scrap requirement during 2010. We expect our scrap consumption to remain at high levels as we continue to emphasize the utilization of scrap for our electron beam cold hearth (EB) melting activity. We also occasionally sell scrap, usually in a form or grade we cannot economically recycle for use in our production operations. Overall market forces can significantly impact the supply or cost of externally produced scrap, as the amount of scrap generated in the supply chain varies during titanium business cycles. Early in the titanium cycle, the demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to increase the scrap requirements for titanium manufacturers. This demand precedes the increase in scrap generation by downstream customers and the supply chain. The reduced availability of scrap at this stage of the cycle places upward pressure on the market price of scrap. The opposite situation occurs when demand for titanium melted and mill products begins to decline, resulting in greater availability of scrap supply and downward pressure on the market price of scrap. During the middle of the cycle, scrap generation and consumption are in relative equilibrium, minimizing disruptions in supply or significant changes in the available supply and market price for scrap. Increasing or decreasing cycles tend to cause significant changes in both the supply and market price of scrap. These supply chain dynamics result in selling prices for melted and mill products which generally tend to correspond with the changes in raw material costs. All of our major competitors utilize scrap as a raw material in their titanium melt operations, and steel manufacturers also use titanium scrap as an alloy to produce interstitial free steels, stainless steels and high strength low alloy steels. Prices for all forms and grades of titanium scrap declined steadily during the first half of 2008 due to increased availability and reduced demand. The global recession reduced demand for titanium scrap in the second half of 2008 and the first nine months of 2009, which resulted in sharp declines in scrap prices over the same period. Overall demand and prices for titanium scrap increased in late 2009 as a result of the market forces described above, and we currently believe general economic conditions will continue to cause the price of titanium scrap to increase in 2010. Other Various alloy additions used in the production of titanium products, such as vanadium and molybdenum, are also available from a number of suppliers. The decline in demand from steel manufacturers for vanadium and molybdenum also resulted in dramatic drops in cost for these alloys in 2009, as compared to 2008. However, we currently believe that demand for alloys will increase in 2010, likely causing the price of alloys to increase as well. Customer agreements. We have long term agreements (LTAs) with certain major customers, including, among others, The Boeing Company (Boeing), Rolls Royce plc and its German and U.S. affiliates (Rolls Royce), United Technologies Corporation (UTC, Pratt & Whitney and related companies), the Safran companies (Safran, Snecma and related companies), Wyman Gordon Company (Wyman Gordon, a unit of Precision Castparts Corporation (PCC)) and VALTIMET SAS. These agreements expire at various times through 2017, are subject to certain conditions and generally provide for (i) minimum market shares of the customers titanium requirements or firm annual volume commitments, (ii) formula determined prices (including some elements based on market pricing) and (iii) price adjustments for certain raw material, labor and energy cost fluctuations. Generally, the LTAs require our service and product performance to meet specified criteria and contain a number of other terms and conditions customary in transactions of these types. Certain provisions of these LTAs have been amended in the past and may be amended in the future to meet changing business conditions. Our 2009 sales revenues to customers under LTAs were 64% of our total sales revenues. In certain events of nonperformance by us or the customer, an LTA may be terminated early. Although it is possible that some portion of the business would continue on a non LTA basis, the termination or expiration without renewal of one or more of the LTAs could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The LTAs were designed to limit selling price volatility to the customer and to us, while providing us with a committed volume base throughout the titanium industry business cycles and certain mechanisms to adjust pricing for changes in certain cost elements. 4 Markets and customer base. As discussed previously, we produce a wide range of melted and mill titanium products for our customers, and selling prices generally reflect raw material and other productions costs as well as reasonable profit margins. Selling prices are generally influenced by industry and global economic conditions. For instance, increases in global capacity and manufacturing activity for titanium products throughout the supply chain in 2007 and 2008 increased the availability of titanium scrap, which resulted in declining costs for this raw material through the first nine months of 2009. This decline in raw material costs has, in turn, contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under LTAs, due in part to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements, as well as for our non contract sales volume. The demand for our titanium products is global, and our global productive capabilities allow us to respond to our customers needs. The following table summarizes our sales revenue by geographical location: Year ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Sales revenue to customers within: North America 61% 59% 65% Europe 29% 29% 27% Other 10% 12% 8% Total 100% 100% 100% Further information regarding our external sales, net income, long lived assets and total assets can be found in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income and Notes 5 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our concentration of customers, primarily in commercial aerospace, may impact our overall exposure to credit and other risks because all of these customers may be similarly affected by the same economic or other conditions. The following table provides supplemental sales revenue information: Year ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Ten largest customers 49% 49% 57% Significant customers: Boeing 10% 12% 17% PCC and PCC related entities (1) 11% 10% 15% Total LTAs 47% 56% 64% Significant LTAs: Boeing 10% 12% 17% Rolls Royce (1) 12% 13% 13% (1) PCC and PCC related entities serve as suppliers to certain commercial aerospace manufacturers, including Rolls Royce. Certain sales we make directly to PCC and PCC related entities also count towards, and are reflected in, the table above as sales to Rolls Royce under the Rolls Royce LTA. The following table provides supplemental sales revenue information by industry sector: Year ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (Percentage of total sales revenue) Commercial aerospace 55% 59% 60% Military 19% 16% 20% Industrial and emerging markets 16% 15% 11% Other titanium products 10% 10% 9% Total 100% 100% 100% The primary market for titanium products in the commercial aerospace sector consists of two major manufacturers of large commercial airframes, Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group (a unit of Boeing) and Airbus, as well as manufacturers of large civil aircraft engines including Rolls Royce, General Electric Aircraft Engines, Pratt & Whitney and Safran. We sell directly to these major manufacturers, as well as to companies (including forgers such as Wyman Gordon) that use our titanium to produce parts and other materials for such manufacturers. If any of the major aerospace manufacturers were to significantly reduce aircraft and or jet engine build rates from those currently expected, there could be a material adverse effect, both directly and indirectly, on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The market for titanium in the military sector includes sales of melted and mill titanium products engineered for applications for military aircraft (both engines and airframes), armor and component parts, armor appliqu on ground combat vehicles and other integrated armor or structural components. We sell directly to many of the major manufacturers associated with military programs on a global basis. Outside of commercial aerospace and military sectors, we manufacture a wide range of products for customers in the chemical process, oil and gas, consumer, sporting goods, healthcare, automotive and power generation sectors. In addition to melted and mill products, which are sold into all market sectors, we sell certain other products such as titanium fabrications, titanium scrap and titanium tetrachloride. Our backlog was approximately $695 million at December 31, 2008 and $440 million at December 31, 2009. Over 90% of our 2009 year end backlog is scheduled for shipment during 2010. Our order backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future business activity. We have explored and will continue to explore strategic arrangements in the areas of product development, production and distribution. We will also continue to work with existing and potential customers to identify and develop new or improved applications for titanium that take advantage of its unique properties and qualities. Competition. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Producers of melted and mill products are located primarily in the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, China and the United Kingdom. There are also several producers of titanium sponge in the world that are currently in some stage of increasing sponge production capacity. We believe entry as a new producer of titanium sponge would require a significant capital investment, substantial technical expertise and significant lead time. Additionally, producers of other metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities that could be used or modified to process titanium products. Our principal competitors in the aerospace titanium market are Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (ATI) and RTI International Metals, Inc. (RTI), both based in the United States, and Verkhnaya Salda Metallurgical Production Organization (VSMPO), based in Russia. UNITI (a joint venture between ATI and VSMPO), RTI and certain Japanese producers are our principal competitors in the industrial and emerging markets. We compete primarily on the basis of price, quality of products, technical support and the availability of products to meet customers delivery schedules. In the U.S. market, the increasing presence of foreign participants has become a significant competitive factor. Prior to 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. were not significant, primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. 5 Trade and tariffs Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% normal trade relations tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). Because a significant portion of end use products made from titanium products are ultimately exported, we, along with our principal competitors and many customers, actively utilize the duty drawback mechanism to recover most of the tariff paid on imports. From time to time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future. The Japanese government has raised the elimination or harmonization of tariffs on titanium products, including titanium sponge, for consideration in multi lateral trade negotiations through the World Trade Organization (the so called Doha Round). As part of the Doha Round, the United States has proposed the staged elimination of all industrial tariffs, including those on titanium. The Japanese government has specifically asked that titanium in all its forms be included in the tariff elimination program. We have urged that no change be made to these tariffs, either on wrought or unwrought products. The negotiations are ongoing and are expected to continue during 2010. We will continue to resist efforts to eliminate duties on titanium products, although we may not be successful in these activities. Further reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all of these tariffs could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot, slab and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could adversely affect pricing for titanium sponge, ingot, slab and mill products and thus our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Section 2533b of Title 10, United States Code, legislation formerly known as the Berry Amendment, requires that subject to certain exceptions the United States Department of Defense (DoD) expend funds for products containing specialty metals, including titanium, only if the specialty metals have been melted or produced in the United States. In 2009, the DoD adopted regulations regarding the implementation of this specialty metals law that may reduce its effectiveness. We will continue to resist attempts to undermine this specialty metals law. A weakening in the enforcement of this specialty metals law could increase foreign competition for sales of titanium for defense products, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Research and development. Our research and development activities are directed toward expanding the use of titanium and titanium alloys in all market sectors. Key research activities include the development of new alloys, development of technology required to enhance the performance of our products in the traditional industrial and aerospace markets and applications development for emerging markets. In addition, we continue to work in partnership with the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ("DARPA") and others to explore means to reduce the cost of titanium production. The work with DARPA complements our research, development and exploration of innovative technologies and improvements to the existing processes such as Vacuum Distillation of sponge and Vacuum Arc Remelting processes. We conduct the majority of our research and development activities at our Henderson Technical Laboratory, with additional activities at our Witton, England facility. We incurred research and development costs of $4.2 million in 2007, $4.3 million in 2008 and $7.8 million in 2009. Patents and trademarks. We hold U.S. and non U.S. patents applicable to certain of our titanium alloys and manufacturing technology, which expire at various times from 2010 through 2026 and we have certain other patent applications pending. We continually seek patent protection with respect to our technology base and have occasionally entered into cross licensing arrangements with third parties. We believe the trademarks TIMET and TIMETAL, which are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries, are important to our business. However, the majority of our titanium alloys and manufacturing technologies do not benefit from patent protection. Employees. Our employee headcount varies due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and its impact on our business. Our employee headcount includes both our full and part time employees. The following table shows our approximate employee headcount at the end of the past 3 years: Employees at December 31, 2007 2008 2009 U.S. 1,670 1,775 1,455 Europe 860 895 750 Total 2,530 2,670 2,205 Our production and maintenance workers in Henderson and our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, Ohio (approximately half of our total U.S. employees) are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in January 2011 and June 2011, respectively. Employees at our other U.S. facilities are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. A majority of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Our labor agreement with our U.K. managerial and professional employees expires in March 2011, and our labor agreement with our U.K. production and maintenance employees expires in December 2011. Our labor agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. We currently consider our employee relations to be good. However, it is possible that there could be future work stoppages or other labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Regulatory and environmental matters. Our operations are governed by various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, security and worker safety and health laws and regulations. In the U.S., such laws include the Occupational, Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We use and manufacture substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. We have used and manufactured such substances throughout the history of our operations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws, common law theories of liability or non compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. It is possible that some, or all, of these risks could result in liabilities that would be material to our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our policy is to maintain compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements of environmental and worker health and safety laws and strive to improve environmental, health and safety performance. We incurred capital expenditures related to health, safety and environmental compliance and improvement of approximately $3.0 million in 2007, $2.1 million in 2008 and $1.7 million in 2009. From time to time, we may be subject to health, safety or environmental regulatory enforcement under various statutes, resolution of which typically involves the establishment of compliance programs. Occasionally, resolution of these matters may result in the payment of penalties or the expenditure of additional funds on compliance. Furthermore, the imposition of more strict standards or requirements under environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. As a result of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) inspections, in April 2009 the EPA issued a Notice of Violation (Notice) to us alleging that we violated certain provisions of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act at our Henderson plant. We responded to the EPA and are currently in ongoing discussions with them concerning the nature and extent of required follow up testing and potential remediation that may be required to address the allegations of non compliance. We anticipate submitting detailed proposals for testing during the first quarter of 2010 that will provide the basis for negotiating the scope and methods of any remediation required by the Notice. As part of our continuing environmental assessment with respect to our plant site in Henderson, during 2008 we completed and submitted to the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (NDEP) a Remedial Alternative Study (RAS) with respect to the groundwater located beneath the plant site. The RAS, which was submitted pursuant to an existing agreement between the NDEP and us, addressed the presence of certain contaminants in the plant site groundwater that require remediation. The NDEP completed its review of the RAS and our proposed remedial alternatives during 2008, and the NDEP issued its record of decision in February 2009, which selected our preferred groundwater remedial alternative action plan. We commenced the work to implement the plan in the fourth quarter of 2009. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Related parties. At December 31, 2009, Contran Corporation and other entities or persons related to Harold C. Simmons held approximately 52.2% of our outstanding common stock. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available information. We maintain an Internet website at www.timet.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments thereto, are or will be available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished, as applicable, with the SEC. Additionally, our (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and (iii) Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee and Nominations Committee charters are also available on our website. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report. We will provide these documents to shareholders upon request. Requests should be directed to the attention of our Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1700, Dallas, Texas 75240. The general public may read and copy any materials on file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. We are an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 6 ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with our business. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor that could result in reduced earnings, liquidity or operating losses, could in turn adversely affect our ability to meet our liabilities or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace industry, which represents a significant portion of our business, creates uncertainty regarding our future profitability. In addition, adverse changes to, or interruptions in, our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers could reduce our revenues and impact our profitability. The commercial aerospace sector has a significant influence on titanium companies, particularly mill product producers. The cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace sector has been the principal driver of the fluctuations in the performance of most titanium product producers. Our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. We shipped approximately 67% of our mill products to commercial aerospace customers in 2009, whereas we estimate approximately 46% of the overall titanium industrys mill products were shipped to commercial aerospace customers in 2009. Our melted and mill product sales to commercial aerospace customers accounted for 55% of our total sales in 2007, 59% in 2008 and 60% in 2009. We estimate that 2010 industry mill product shipments into the commercial aerospace sector will be comparable to 2009 levels. Events that could adversely affect the commercial aerospace sector, such as future terrorist attacks, world health crises, the general economic downturn or unforeseen reductions in orders from commercial airlines, could significantly decrease our results of operations and financial condition. See Business Titanium industry Commercial aerospace sector. Sales under LTAs with customers in the commercial aerospace sector accounted for approximately 42% of our 2009 total sales. These LTAs expire at various times beginning in 2011 through 2017. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our major commercial aerospace customers, including Boeing, Rolls Royce, Safran, UTC and Wyman Gordon, under the LTAs we have with these customers, our sales could decrease substantially, negatively impacting our profitability. See Business Customer agreements and Business Markets and customer base. Global economic conditions may affect pricing and demand for our products which could lead to reduced revenues and profitability. Pricing and demand for our products are affected by a number of factors, including changes in demand for our customers products, changes in general economic conditions, availability of credit, changes in market demand, lower overall pricing due to overcapacity, lower priced imports and increases in the use of substitute materials. The recent global economic downturn could continue, which could lead to further reductions in demand for our products and our customers products, excess inventory within the titanium supply chain and excess capacity throughout the industry, including our manufacturing locations. Furthermore, reductions in credit generally available in the financial markets could have adverse impacts to the industry including our business. In addition to the impact that global economic conditions have already had on our business, if these conditions persist or worsen, our financial condition and results of operations may be further impacted. The titanium metals industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The global titanium markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down market prices because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, producers of metal products, such as steel and aluminum, maintain forging, rolling and finishing facilities. Such facilities could be used or modified to process titanium mill products, which could lead to increased competition and decreased pricing for our titanium products. In addition, many factors, including excess capacity resulting from reduced demand in the titanium industry, work to intensify the price competition for available business at low points in the business cycle. Our dependence upon certain critical raw materials that are subject to price and availability fluctuations could lead to increased costs or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers around the world, and principally on those located in Australia and South Africa, for our supply of titanium containing rutile ore, one of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge. While chlorine, another of the primary raw materials used in the production of titanium sponge, is generally widely available, we currently obtain our chlorine from a single supplier near our sponge plant in Henderson. Also, we cannot supply all our needs for all grades of titanium sponge and scrap internally and are therefore dependent on third parties for a substantial portion of our raw material requirements. All of our major competitors utilize sponge and scrap as raw materials in their melt operations. Titanium scrap is also used in certain steel making operations, and demand for these steel products, especially from China, also influences demand for titanium scrap. Purchase prices and availability of these critical materials are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable to us, or at all. To help stabilize our supply of titanium sponge, we have entered into LTAs with certain sponge suppliers that contain fixed annual supply obligations. These LTAs contain minimum annual purchase requirements and, in certain cases, include take or pay provisions which require us to pay penalties if we do not meet the minimum annual purchase requirements. See Business Products and Operations Raw materials, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Contractual commitments and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although overall inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate, during the same period certain critical raw material costs in our industry, including titanium sponge and scrap, have been volatile. While we are able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of fluctuating raw material costs through LTAs with suppliers and customers, rapid increases in raw material costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be forced to decrease prices. We change prices on certain of our products from time to time. Prices for our products are dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors may force us to reduce the prices we charge our customers. In some instances, we may realize cost savings in connection with the price reductions, but the cost savings may lag behind due to long manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. Pricing under our LTAs, which were designed to limit selling price volatility to our customers and us, are generally revised on an annual basis. These factors have had, and may have, an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to develop new markets would result in our continued dependence on the cyclical commercial aerospace sector, and our operating results would, accordingly, remain cyclical. In an effort to reduce dependence on the commercial aerospace market and to increase participation in other markets, we have devoted certain resources to developing new markets and applications for our products. Developing these emerging market applications involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to the fact that titanium must compete with less expensive alternative materials in these potential markets or applications. We may not be successful in developing new markets or applications for our products, significant time may be required for such development and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Because we are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations, we may be required to remediate the environmental effects of our operations or take steps to modify our operations to comply with these laws and regulations, which could reduce our profitability. Various federal, state, local and foreign environmental and worker safety laws and regulations govern our operations. Throughout the history of our operations, we have used and manufactured, and currently use and manufacture, substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under environmental and worker safety and health laws and regulations. Although we have substantial controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of environmental, health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. In addition, government environmental requirements or the enforcement thereof may become more stringent in the future. Some or all of these risks may result in liabilities that could reduce our profitability. Reductions in, or the complete elimination of, any or all tariffs on imported titanium products into the United States could lead to increased imports of foreign sponge, ingot, slab and mill products into the U.S. and an increase in the amount of such products on the market generally, which could decrease pricing for our products. In the U.S. titanium market, the increasing presence of foreign participants has become a significant competitive factor. Until 1993, imports of foreign titanium products into the U.S. had not been significant. This was primarily attributable to relative currency exchange rates and, with respect to Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, import duties (including antidumping duties). However, since 1993, imports of titanium sponge, ingot and mill products, principally from Russia and Kazakhstan, have increased and have had a significant competitive impact on the U.S. titanium industry. Generally, imports of titanium products into the U.S. are subject to a 15% normal trade relations tariff. For tariff purposes, titanium products are broadly classified as either wrought (billet, bar, sheet, strip, plate and tubing) or unwrought (sponge, ingot and slab). From time to time, the U.S. government has granted preferential trade status to certain titanium products imported from particular countries (notably wrought titanium products from Russia, which carried no U.S. import duties from approximately 1993 until 2004). It is possible that such preferential status could be granted again in the future, and we may not be successful in resisting efforts to eliminate duties or tariffs on titanium products. See discussion of Doha Round in Business Competition. We may be unable to reach or maintain satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with unions representing a significant portion of our employees. Our production and maintenance workers in Henderson and our production, maintenance, clerical and technical workers in Toronto, are represented by the United Steelworkers of America under contracts expiring in January 2011 and June 2011, for the respective locations. A majority of the salaried and hourly employees at our European facilities are represented by various European labor unions. Our labor agreement with our managerial and professional U.K. employees expires in March 2011, and our labor agreement with our U.K. production and maintenance employees expires in December 2011. The agreements with our French and Italian employees are renewed annually. A prolonged labor dispute or work stoppage could materially impact our operating results. We may not succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions on terms acceptable to us or maintaining satisfactory relations under existing collective bargaining agreements. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. 7 Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We operate production facilities in several countries, and we believe all of our worldwide production facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. In many of the countries in which we operate, legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit green house gases through various means, including emissions permits and or energy taxes. In several of our production facilities, we consume large amounts of energy, including electricity and natural gas. The permit system currently in effect in the various countries in which we operate has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results. However, if green house gas legislation were to be enacted in one or more countries, it could negatively impact our future results of operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements. If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases onto our customers to compensate for those costs, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES Set forth below is a listing of our major production facilities. In addition to our U.S. sponge capacity discussed below, our worldwide melting capacity aggregates approximately 68,450 metric tons (estimated 20% of worldwide annual practical capacity) as of December 31, 2009, and our mill product capacity aggregates approximately 27,700 metric tons (estimated 18% of worldwide annual practical capacity) as of December 31, 2009. Of our worldwide melting capacity, 46% is represented by EB melting furnaces, 53% by vacuum arc remelting (VAR) furnaces and 1% by a vacuum induction melting (VIM) furnace. December 31, 2009 Annual Practical Capacity (3) Manufacturing Location Products Manufactured Sponge Melted Products Mill Products (metric tons) Henderson, Nevada (1) Sponge, Ingot 12,600 12,250 Morgantown, Pennsylvania (1) Slab, Ingot 40,700 Toronto, Ohio (1) Billet, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Strip 15,000 Vallejo, California (2) Ingot (including non titanium superalloys) 1,600 Ugine, France (2) (4) Ingot, Billet 3,200 2,600 Waunarlwydd, Wales(1) Bar, Plate, Sheet 3,100 Witton, England (2) Ingot, Billet, Bar 10,700 7,000 (1) Owned facility. (2) Leased facility. (3) Practical capacities are variable based on product mix and in some cases are not additive. These capacities are as of December 31, 2009. (4) Practical capacities are based on the approximate maximum equivalent product that CEZUS is contractually obligated to provide. During the past three years, our major production facilities have operated at varying levels of practical capacity. Overall our plants operated at 88% of practical capacity in 2007, 81% in 2008 and 47% in 2009, with our melting operations at 44% utilization and our mill product operations at 49% utilization during 2009. While practical capacity and utilization measures can vary significantly based upon the mix of products produced, we anticipate operating our plants at slightly increased production levels in 2010. United States production. We produce premium grade titanium sponge at our facility in Henderson. Our U.S. melting facilities in Henderson, Morgantown and Vallejo produce ingot and slab, which are either used as feedstock for our mill products operations or sold to third parties. In early 2009, we completed an 8,500 metric ton expansion of our EB melt capacity in Morgantown, which became operational in the fourth quarter of 2009, increasing our total EB melt capacity by approximately 26%. We produce titanium mill products in the U.S. at our forging and rolling facility in Toronto, which receives ingot and slab principally from our U.S. melting facilities. Under various conversion services agreements with third party vendors, we have access to a dedicated annual capacity at certain of our vendors facilities. Our access to outside conversion services includes dedicated annual rolling capacity of at least 4,500 metric tons until 2026, with the option to increase the output capacity to 9,000 metric tons. Additionally, we have access to dedicated annual forging capacity of 3,300 metric tons and ramping up to 8,900 metric tons for 2011 through at least 2019. These agreements provide us with long term secure sources for processing round and flat products, resulting in a significant increase in our existing mill product conversion capabilities, which allows us to assure our customers of our long term ability to meet their needs. European production. We conduct our operations in Europe primarily through our wholly owned subsidiaries, TIMET UK, Ltd. and Loterios S.p.A., and our 70% owned subsidiary, TIMET Savoie. TIMET UKs Witton laboratory and manufacturing facilities are leased pursuant to long term operating leases expiring in 2014 and 2024, respectively. TIMET UKs melting facility in Witton produces VAR ingot used primarily as feedstock for our Witton forging operations. TIMET UK forges the ingot into billet products for sale to third parties or into an intermediate product for further processing into bar or plate at our facility in Waunarlwydd. TIMET Savoie has the right to utilize portions of the Ugine plant of Compagnie Europenne du Zirconium CEZUS, S.A. (CEZUS), the owner of the 30% noncontrolling interest in TIMET Savoie, pursuant to a conversion services agreement which runs through 2015. TIMET Savoies capacity is to a certain extent dependent upon the level of activity in CEZUS zirconium business, which may from time to time provide TIMET Savoie with capacity in excess of that which CEZUS is contractually required to provide. Our agreement with CEZUS requires them to provide us with melt capacity up to 3,200 metric tons annually and mill product capacity up to 2,600 metric tons annually. Loterios manufactures large industrial use fabrications, generally on a project engineering and design basis, and therefore, measures of annual capacity are not practical or meaningful. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to our business. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4: RESERVED 8 PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: TIE). The high and low sales prices for our common stock during 2008, 2009 and the first two months of 2010 are set forth below. All prices (as well as all share numbers referenced herein) have been adjusted to reflect previously affected stock splits. Year ended December 31, 2008: High Low First quarter $ 26.79 $ 13.05 Second quarter $ 19.65 $ 13.33 Third quarter $ 15.00 $ 9.80 Fourth quarter $ 11.32 $ 5.31 Year ended December 31, 2009: First quarter $ 9.89 $ 4.04 Second quarter $ 11.52 $ 5.25 Third quarter $ 10.63 $ 7.34 Fourth quarter $ 13.18 $ 8.39 January 1, 2009 to February 19, 2010 $ 15.33 $ 10.54 On February 19, 2010, the closing price of TIMET common stock was $12.06 per share, and there were approximately 2,275 stockholders of record of TIMET common stock. Our Series A Preferred Stock is not mandatorily redeemable but is redeemable at our option at any time after September 1, 2007. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6.75% of the $50 per share liquidation preference per annum per share (equivalent to $3.375 per annum per share), when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Whether or not declared, cumulative dividends on Series A Preferred Stock are deducted from net income to arrive at net income attributable to common stockholders. Our U.S. long term credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that may restrict our ability to make dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. During 2007, an aggregate of 1.6 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 21.3 million shares of our common stock, and a nominal number of our Series A Preferred shares were converted into a nominal number of shares of our common stock in 2008. No Series A Preferred Stock was converted during 2009. As a result of these conversions, approximately 0.1 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 2009. We initiated a quarterly dividend on our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007 resulting in dividends of $13.7 million, or $0.075 per common share during 2007, and we paid an aggregate of $54.5 million, or $0.30 per common share, in dividends on our common stock during 2008. In February 2009, our board of directors suspended our quarterly common stock dividend after considering the current economic and financial environment. Declaration and payment of future dividends on our common stock, and the amount thereof, is discretionary and is dependent upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements for our business, contractual requirements and restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The amount and timing of past dividends is not necessarily indicative of the amount and timing of future dividends which we might pay. In this regard, our U.S. long term credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that may restrict our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock. During 2007, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of our common stock in open market transactions or in privately negotiated transactions, with any repurchased shares to be retired and cancelled. During 2008 and 2009, we purchased 2.3 million and 1.5 million shares, respectively, of our common stock in open market transactions for an aggregate purchase price of $36.5 million and $14.7 million, respectively, and all shares acquired under this repurchase program during 2008 and 2009 have been cancelled. The following table discloses certain information regarding the shares of our common stock we purchased during the fourth quarter of 2009 (we made no purchases during November 2009). All of these purchases were made under the repurchase program in open market transactions. Period Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of the publicly announced plan Maximum dollar value that may yet be purchased under the publicly announced plan (In millions) October 1, 2009 to October 31, 2009 485,437 $ 10.35 485,437 $ 52.6 December 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009 375,000 $ 10.00 375,000 $ 48.8 Performance graph. Set forth below is a line graph comparing, for the period December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2009, the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock against the cumulative total return of (a) the S&P Composite 500 Stock Index and (b) a self selected peer group, comprised solely of RTI International Metals, Inc. (NYSE: RTI), our principal U.S. competitor with significant operations primarily in the titanium metals industry for which meaningful stockholder return information is available. The graph shows the value at December 31 of each year, assuming an original investment of $100 in each and reinvestment of cash dividends and other distributions to stockholders. Comparison of Cumulative Return among Titanium Metals Corporation, S&P 500 Composite Index and Self Selected Peer Group The information contained in the performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or filed with the SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act, except to the extent we specifically request that the material be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates this performance graph by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act. 9 Equity compensation plan information. We have certain equity compensation plans, all of which were approved by our stockholders, which provide for the discretionary grant to our employees and directors of, among other things, options to purchase our common stock and stock awards. As of December 31, 2008, there were a nominal number of options under all such plans to purchase shares of our common stock, all of which were exercised on or before February 23, 2009. We issued a nominal number of unrestricted common shares to our non employee directors during 2008 and 2009, and awards representing an aggregate total of up to 0.5 million common shares were available for future grant or issuance under the plans. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 MD&A: Year ended December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 ($ in millions, except per share and product shipment data) STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA: Net sales $ 749.8 $ 1,183.2 $ 1,278.9 $ 1,151.5 $ 774.0 Gross margin 199.4 436.1 447.4 287.7 113.3 Operating income 171.1 382.8 372.0 219.7 54.9 Interest expense 4.0 3.4 2.6 1.8 0.8 Net income 160.8 290.0 276.7 168.2 35.8 Net income attributable to TIMET common stockholders 143.7 274.5 263.1 162.2 34.3 Earnings per share attributable to TIMET stockholders: Basic (1) $ 1.10 $ 1.77 $ 1.62 $ 0.89 $ 0.19 Diluted (1) 0.86 1.53 1.46 0.89 0.19 Dividends per common share 0.075 0.30 BALANCE SHEET DATA: Cash and cash equivalents $ 17.7 $ 29.4 $ 90.0 $ 45.0 $ 169.4 Total assets (2) 907.3 1,216.9 1,419.9 1,367.7 1,378.6 Outstanding indebtedness (4) 51.6 0.7 0.5 0.2 0.1 Debt payable to Capital Trust 5.9 TIMET stockholders equity (2) (3) 562.2 878.9 1,132.7 1,079.6 1,107.0 Total equity (3) 575.7 900.2 1,156.6 1,100.3 1,124.1 CASH FLOW DATA: Cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 72.9 $ 79.1 $ 192.1 $ 197.6 $ 206.8 Investing activities (61.5 ) (26.5 ) (108.2 ) (142.6 ) (64.1 ) Financing activities (42.5 ) (24.5 ) (97.7 ) (20.3 ) Net cash provided (used) $ 11.4 $ 10.1 $ 59.4 $ (42.7 ) $ 122.4 Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 5,655 5,900 4,720 3,850 2,750 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 19.85 $ 38.30 $ 40.65 $ 30.00 $ 25.10 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 12,660 14,160 14,230 15,050 11,425 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 41.75 $ 57.85 $ 66.90 $ 60.70 $ 55.60 Order backlog at December 31 (5) $ 870 $ 1,125 $ 1,000 $ 695 $ 440 Capital expenditures $ 61.1 $ 100.9 $ 100.9 $ 121.3 $ 33.0 (1) All share and per share disclosures for all periods presented have been adjusted to give effect of all stock splits to date. (2) We adopted the accounting and disclosure requirements for the funding status of pension and OPEB plans within ASC Topic 715 effective December 31, 2006. (3) We adopted the accounting and disclosure requirements for noncontrolling interest within ASC Topic 810 effective January 1, 2007. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) Outstanding indebtedness represents notes payable, current and noncurrent debt and capital lease obligations. (5) Order backlog is defined as unfilled purchase orders (including those under consignment arrangements), which are generally subject to deferral or cancellation by the customer under certain conditions. 10 ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY General overview. We are a vertically integrated producer of titanium sponge, melted products and a variety of mill products for commercial aerospace, military, industrial and other applications. We are one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted products (ingot, electrode and slab) and mill products (billet, bar, plate, sheet and strip). We are the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium. We are currently the largest producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, in the United States. We sell our titanium melted and mill products into four worldwide market sectors. Aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2009 were derived from the following sectors: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product shipments % of total Mill product shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Commercial aerospace 7,643 67% 29,800 46% Military 1,942 17% 5,800 9% Industrial 1,558 14% 27,600 43% Emerging markets 282 2% 1,700 2% 11,425 100% 64,900 100% (1) Estimates based on our titanium industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table above, our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. We base our estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors we believe to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. We consider the policies and estimates discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their application requires our most significant judgments in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. Inventory valuation. We provide reserves for estimated obsolete or unmarketable inventories equal to the difference between the cost of inventories and the estimated net realizable value using assumptions about future demand for our products, alternate uses of the inventory and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by us, we may be required to recognize additional inventory reserves. Impairment of marketable securities. We evaluate our investments whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the carrying amount for an investment declines below its historical cost basis, we evaluate all available positive and negative evidence including, but not limited to, the extent and duration of the impairment, business prospects for the investee and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient for the recovery of fair value. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the investment is written down to fair value. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our analysis of our investment in Valhi common stock. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets may not be recoverable, we undertake an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. We did not evaluate any long lived assets for impairment during 2009 because no such impairment indicators were present. If decreased demand for our products continues or worsens, we may be required to reduce our production levels by idling certain equipment or facilities. In that event, we may be required to evaluate certain of our long lived assets for impairment, in which case it is possible we might conclude that recognition of an impairment charge was appropriate. Income taxes. We record a valuation allowance if realization of our gross deferred income tax assets is not more likely than not after giving consideration to recent historical results and near term projections, and we also consider the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. We also evaluate at the end of each reporting period whether some or all of the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are permanently reinvested (as that term is defined in generally accepted accounting principles). While we may have concluded in the past that some undistributed earnings are permanently reinvested, facts and circumstances can change in the future, such as a change in the expectation regarding the capital needs of our foreign subsidiaries, which could result in a conclusion that some or all of the undistributed earnings are no longer permanently reinvested. If our prior conclusions change, we would recognize a deferred income tax liability in an amount equal to the estimated incremental U.S. income tax and withholding tax liability that would be generated if all of such previously considered permanently reinvested undistributed earnings were distributed to us. We did not change our conclusions on our undistributed foreign earnings in 2009. Beginning in 2007, we began recording reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, for tax positions where we believe it is more likely than not our position will not prevail with the applicable tax authorities. From time to time, tax authorities will examine certain of our income tax returns. Tax authorities may interpret tax regulations differently than we do. Judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits and changes to or further interpretations of regulations, thereby resulting in an increase or decrease in the amount we are required to accrue for uncertain tax positions (and therefore a decrease or increase in our reported net income in the period of such change). Our reserve for uncertain tax positions changed during 2009. See Results of Operations Income taxes for discussion of our analysis of our deferred income tax valuation allowances and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our uncertain tax positions. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. Our pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets. We review these rates annually with the assistance of our actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. 11 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of 2009 to 2008 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2008 % of total net sales 2009 % of total net sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 115.5 10 % $ 69.0 9 % Mill products 913.5 79 % 635.2 82 % Other titanium products 122.5 11 % 69.8 9 % Total net sales 1,151.5 100 % 774.0 100 % Cost of sales 863.8 75 % 660.7 85 % Gross margin 287.7 25 % 113.3 15 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 66.5 6 % 60.4 8 % Other (expense) income, net (1.5 ) 2.0 Operating income $ 219.7 19 % $ 54.9 7 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 3,850 2,750 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 30.00 $ 25.10 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 15,050 11,425 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 60.70 $ 55.60 Net sales. Our net sales were $774.0 million for 2009 compared to net sales of $1,151.5 million for 2008. The 33% decrease in net sales was principally the result of reduced volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower average selling prices in 2009 compared to 2008. Product shipment volumes decreased 29% for melted products and 24% for mill products from 2008 to 2009, as overall titanium demand declined due to the weak global economy and the effects of production delays within the commercial aerospace sector. Additionally, as a result of these production delays, we believe many of our customers implemented strategies to reduce excess inventories and to maximize operating cash flows. Average selling prices decreased 16% for melted products and 8% for mill products over these same periods due to competitive pricing pressures resulting from lower demand for titanium products and a decline in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap. The decline in raw material costs has contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long term customer agreements, in part due to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements. Gross margin. For 2009, our gross margin was $113.3 million as compared to $287.7 million for 2008, primarily reflecting the effects of lower volumes and average selling prices for our melted and mill products. Due to low utilization of our production capacity, the favorable impacts on our gross margin from declining raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, were largely offset by higher per unit overhead costs. In addition, abnormally low production throughout our major manufacturing operations resulted in unabsorbed fixed overhead costs of $23.2 million for 2009. Operating income. Our operating income for 2009 was $54.9 million compared to $219.7 million during 2008 primarily reflecting the decline in gross margin. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2009, we recognized other non operating income of $2.4 million. During 2008, we recognized other non operating income of $19.4 million consisting primarily of $9.9 million in foreign currency gains as the dollar strengthened against the pound sterling and the euro in the second half of 2008 and a $6.7 million gain on sale of an investment discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 37% in 2009 compared to 29% in 2008. Our effective income tax rate for 2009 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to the net effects of lower earnings, changes in foreign tax law that caused us to revise our judgments regarding our ability to utilize certain foreign tax attributes and incremental taxes on foreign earnings. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in the 2008 period was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization prior to 2008. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2009 includes: An income tax benefit of $5.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; and An income tax expense of $3.0 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. Our income tax expense in 2008 includes: An income tax benefit of $14.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $1.9 million related to the reversal of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of an investment; and An income tax expense of $2.7 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. U.K. legislation enacted in 2009 will increase our future effective income tax rate and our cash tax payments. 12 Comparison of 2008 to 2007 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2007 % of total net sales 2008 % of total net sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 191.9 15 % $ 115.5 10 % Mill products 952.0 74 % 913.5 79 % Other titanium products 135.0 11 % 122.5 11 % Total net sales 1,278.9 100 % 1,151.5 100 % Cost of sales 831.5 65 % 863.8 75 % Gross margin 447.4 35 % 287.7 25 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 69.0 5 % 66.5 6 % Other expense, net 6.4 1 % 1.5 Operating income $ 372.0 29 % $ 219.7 19 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 4,720 3,850 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 40.65 $ 30.00 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 14,230 15,050 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 66.90 $ 60.70 Net sales. Our net sales were $1,151.5 million for 2008 compared to net sales of $1,278.9 million for 2007. Average selling prices for melted and mill products decreased 26% and 9%, respectively, from 2007 to 2008. Revisions and delays in the build out schedules of certain commercial aircraft, and the resulting effects on production and inventory levels throughout the supply chain, negatively impacted demand and selling prices for titanium products in 2008 compared to 2007. Declines in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, also contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long term agreements during 2008, due in part to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements. Gross margin. During 2008, our gross margin was $287.7 million as compared to $447.4 million for 2007, primarily reflecting decreases in the average selling prices for our melted and mill products. The favorable impacts of declining costs for titanium scrap in 2008 were substantially offset by higher costs of production, primarily energy, and certain other raw materials. Operating income. Our operating income for 2008 was $219.7 million compared to $372.0 million during 2007 primarily due to the decline in gross margin. The 2007 period also includes a $6.0 million expense related to previously capitalized costs associated with the planning and engineering for a new VDP sponge plant, based on our decision to delay the project indefinitely. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2008, we recognized other non operating income of $19.4 million consisting primarily of $9.9 million in foreign currency gains as the dollar strengthened against the pound sterling and the euro in the second half of 2008 and a $6.7 million gain on sale of an investment discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2007, we recognized other non operating income of $24.2 million consisting primarily of an $18.3 million gain on the sale of our investment in CompX discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 29% in 2008 compared to 30% in 2007. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate for 2008 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to a change in the mix of our pre tax earnings, with a higher percentage of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions in 2008, primarily as a result of the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization in 2007. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2008 includes: An income tax benefit of $14.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $1.9 million related to the reversal of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of an investment; and An income tax expense of $2.7 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. Our income tax expense in 2007 includes: An income tax benefit of $12.6 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007 and An income tax benefit of $6.5 million related primarily to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in CompX. European operations We have substantial operations located in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 33% of our sales originated in Europe for 2009, a portion of which were denominated in foreign currency, principally the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain raw material costs, principally purchases of titanium sponge and alloys for our European operations, are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of our European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Our European operations may incur borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars or in their respective functional currencies. Our export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. We do not use currency contracts to hedge our currency exposures. The translated U.S. dollar value of our foreign sales and operating results are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations which may favorably or adversely impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. By applying the exchange rates prevailing during the prior year period to our local currency results of operations for the current year period, the translation impact of currency rate fluctuations can be estimated. 13 As the U.S. dollar strengthened versus the British pound but weakened versus the euro in 2008 compared to 2007 and strengthened versus the British pound and the euro in 2009 compared to 2008, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates had the following effects on our sales and operating income: 2008 versus 2007 2009 versus 2008 (In millions) Increase (decrease) in: Net sales $ (4.3 ) $ (38.4 ) Operating income 0.9 1.1 Outlook Shipments of our titanium mill products for 2009 were 24% lower than shipments in 2008, which reflects softness in demand, particularly within the commercial aerospace sector. In addition to the ongoing weakness in the global economy, circumstances within the commercial aerospace market contributed to weak demand and lower prices for titanium products. Reduced passenger traffic and reduced financing available to commercial airlines and aircraft leasing companies have contributed to reduced order rates and uncertainty regarding production schedules for commercial aircraft. Further, excess supply chain inventories, particularly as a result of adjustments to production schedules for Boeing and Airbus, and other factors, including delays in development and delivery of the Boeing 787, continue to impact demand for titanium products. We expect customer demand for our products to stabilize and show improvement as these factors begin to be resolved and inventory levels begin to stabilize during the next year. As a result of long term agreements with a majority of our major customers, many of which specify annual pricing mechanisms and minimum purchase commitments, we do not anticipate significant changes in our overall sales volumes for 2010 as compared to levels achieved during 2009, but average selling prices will likely be somewhat lower in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of raw materials index price adjustments in certain of our long term agreements. Current customer order levels indicate that the significant destocking activity in the titanium supply chain during 2009 has abated. Also, in recent months, open market scrap prices have been increasing, which we believe is an indication that industry demand has stabilized and may soon begin to increase. Boeing recently completed successful initial test flights for the Boeing 787 and continues to target first customer deliveries of the aircraft in the fourth quarter of 2010. If Boeing achieves this timeline, we anticipate production rates throughout the commercial aerospace supply chain will accelerate over the next two to three years, which should increase customer demand for our products and positively affect our sales and operating results. We continue to monitor our production rates, global workforce and cost structures in response to anticipated demand for our products. Although per unit costs for both melted and mill products were favorably impacted during 2009 by declining raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, such cost reductions have been offset by higher per unit production and overhead costs resulting from allocation of such costs over lower production volumes. Through prudent management of production rates and costs, as well as conservative capital investment, we continue to maintain positive cash flows and a strong balance sheet, including $169.4 million of cash, borrowing availability under our bank credit agreements of approximately $211.4 million and no bank debt as of December 31, 2009. We have maintained positive earnings and generated significant operating cash flows during the most severe recession in decades, and we expect to continue to adjust our cost structure and production rates as necessary to achieve positive operating cash flow and preserve our financial strength. We continue to believe the overall industry outlook supports a long term favorable trend in demand for titanium products. This trend is driven in part by the long term demand in the commercial aerospace industry for a new generation of more fuel efficient aircraft that require a significantly higher percentage of titanium than earlier models. In January 2010, The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, issued its semi annual forecast for commercial aircraft deliveries. Aggregate annual deliveries of aircraft for Boeing and Airbus are expected to reach record numbers during each year from 2011 through 2013 (totaling at least 1,010 aircraft deliveries each year during the period). Even after the next expected peak in overall deliveries of Boeing and Airbus aircraft (forecast for 2012 at 1,025 units), the demand for titanium is expected to continue to increase significantly due to increased deliveries of twin aisle aircraft and the increased production rates of next generation commercial aircraft, both of which consume large amounts of titanium metal. Beyond 2014, projected aircraft deliveries remain strong as fuel efficiency and expansion of the global fleet in developing areas, such as Asia, are expected to be key drivers of long term demand. Although the duration of the current global recession may impact the timing and rate of the demand recovery, this recent forecast supports our belief that long term industry wide demand trends will remain strong for the foreseeable future. Our strategic plans to improve our production capabilities are focused on opportunities to improve our operating flexibility, efficiency and cost structure to meet our customers long term needs. In particular, we continue to enhance our ability to meet our current and prospective customers needs and strengthen our position as a reliable supplier in markets where technical ability and precision are critical. We have been successful over the last several years in establishing significant flexibility and cost advantages in our entire manufacturing process. We believe our efficient manufacturing processes and strong balance sheet have kept us well positioned in the current economic environment, and we believe our financial strength will allow us to continue to invest in our business, fully serve our current and prospective customers and pursue strategic opportunities when appropriate. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 192.1 $ 197.6 $ 206.8 Investing activities (108.2 ) (142.6 ) (64.1 ) Financing activities (24.5 ) (97.7 ) (20.3 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities $ 59.4 $ (42.7 ) $ 122.4 Operating activities. Cash flow from operations is considered a primary source of our liquidity. Changes in pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect our liquidity. Cash provided by operating activities increased $9.2 million, from $197.6 million in 2008 to $206.8 million in 2009. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: operating income declined by $164.8 million in 2009; net cash provided by operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities increased by $129.2 million in 2009 in response to changing working capital requirements resulting primarily from declining inventory levels; and net cash paid for income taxes declined by $38.2 million in 2009 primarily due to lower taxable income in 2009. Cash provided by operating activities increased $5.5 million, from $192.1 million in 2007 to $197.6 in 2008. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: operating income declined by $152.3 million in 2008; net cash used in operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities declined by $42.1 million in 2008 in response to changing working capital requirements and improved collections of receivables; and net cash paid for income taxes declined by $105.0 million in 2008 primarily due to lower taxable income in 2008. Investing activities. Cash flows used in our investing activities changed from $108.2 million in 2007 to $142.6 million in 2008 to $64.1 million in 2009. Our capital expenditures were $100.9 million during 2007, $121.3 million in 2008 and $33.0 million in 2009. Capital projects and other significant investing activities include the following: During 2007 and 2008, we had construction underway for the first and second phases of our EB melt capacity expansion at our facility in Morgantown and other capacity expansion projects in the U.S. and Europe. Most of our capacity expansion projects are now substantially complete, and 2009 capital spending was primarily limited to those projects required to properly maintain our equipment and facilities. 14 We purchased $26.4 million in marketable equity securities during 2008 and $0.7 million during 2009. We entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility with Contran Corporation during 2009, pursuant to which we loaned Contran an aggregate of $33.8 million as of December 31, 2009. We received principal payments on notes receivable from CompX International Inc. of $2.6 million in 2007, $7.3 million in 2008 and $0.5 million in 2009. Financing activities. We had no net borrowing activity during 2007, 2008 and 2009. Other significant items included in our cash flows from financing activities included: dividends paid on our common stock of $13.7 million in 2007 and $54.5 million in 2008; dividends paid on our Series A Preferred Stock of $5.6 million in 2007, $0.3 million in 2008 and $0.2 million in 2009; dividends paid to CEZUS of $8.1 million in 2007, $6.8 million in 2008 and $5.5 million in 2009; and treasury stock purchases of $36.5 million during 2008 and $14.7 million in 2009. In February 2009, our board of directors decided to suspend our quarterly dividend after considering the current economic and financial environment. Future cash requirements Liquidity. Our primary source of liquidity on an ongoing basis is our cash flows from operating activities and borrowing availability under various credit facilities. We generally use these amounts to (i) fund capital expenditures, (ii) repay indebtedness incurred primarily for working capital purposes and (iii) provide for the payment of dividends. From time to time we will incur indebtedness, generally to (i) fund short term working capital needs, (ii) refinance existing indebtedness, (iii) make investments in marketable and other securities (including the acquisition of securities issued by our subsidiaries and affiliates) or (iv) fund major capital expenditures or the acquisition of other assets outside the ordinary course of business. We routinely evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, we have in the past, and in light of our current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify our common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, we investigate, evaluate, discuss and engage in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, we may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. We paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.075 per share in 2007 and four such quarterly cash dividends in 2008. In the first quarter of 2009, our board of directors decided to suspend our quarterly dividend after considering the current economic and financial environment. We believe it is in our best interest to enhance our financial strength which will allow us to continue investing in our business and taking advantage of potential opportunities in our industry, including acquisitions, long term partnering agreements or joint ventures, if and when such strategic opportunities arise. Additionally, we will have the flexibility to repurchase shares of our common stock under our previously announced repurchase programs without sacrificing our ability to pursue other opportunities in our industry. The declaration and payment of future dividends will be dependent upon the boards consideration of our cash requirements, contractual commitments, including applicable credit facility covenants, strategic plans and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. At December 31, 2009, we had aggregate borrowing availability under our existing U.S and European credit facilities of $211.4 million, and we could borrow all such amounts without violating any covenants of our credit facilities. We had an aggregate of $169.4 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our U.S. credit facility matures in February 2011, and our U.K. credit facilities mature in August 2012. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based upon our expectations of our operating performance, the anticipated demands on our cash resources, borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities and anticipated borrowing capacity after the maturity of these credit facilities, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations for the short term (defined as the next twelve month period) and our long term obligations. Repurchases of common stock. At February 19, 2010, we had approximately $48.8 million available for repurchase of our common stock under the authorizations described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital expenditures. We currently estimate we will invest a total of approximately $35 million to $40 million for capital expenditures during 2010. In response to current economic conditions, our planned capital expenditures are limited to those required to properly maintain our equipment and facilities. Capital spending for 2010 is expected to be funded by cash flows from operating activities or existing cash resources and available credit facilities. We continue to evaluate additional opportunities to improve or replace productive assets including capital projects, acquisitions or other investments which, if consummated, any required funding would be provided by existing cash resources or borrowings under our U.S. or European credit facilities. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we were a party to various agreements at December 31, 2009 that contractually commit us to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2010 2011/2012 2013/2014 2015 & After Total (In millions) Operating leases $ 6.6 $ 10.9 $ 8.2 $ 25.0 $ 50.7 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (1) 82.7 159.6 136.7 449.6 828.6 Other (2) 46.4 38.1 31.6 50.7 166.8 Other contractual obligations (3) 10.1 0.2 10.3 $ 145.8 $ 208.8 $ 176.5 $ 525.3 $ 1,056.4 (1) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to LTAs that expire at varying dates (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders or commitments for the purchase of raw materials. Certain of the LTAs have annually negotiated prices and ranges of volumes, and we have assumed minimum required volumes and minimum or estimated prices, as deemed appropriate. Certain of the LTAs contain automatic renewal provisions; however, we have only included the purchase commitments associated with the initial terms of each LTA. (2) These obligations generally relate to contractual purchase obligations for conversion services, certain operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2015 (as described in Item 2: Properties), and various other open orders for the purchase of energy, utilities and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of services purchased, as appropriate. All open orders are primarily for delivery in 2010. (3) These other obligations include an obligation under a workers compensation bond, capital and interest payments under capital lease agreements and income taxes payable, all of which are recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, we have an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement (ISA) which will be recorded ratably over the 2010 service period. We expect to renew the ISA annually. The above table does not reflect any amounts that we might pay to fund our defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans, as the timing and amount of any such future funding are unknown and dependent on, among other things, the future performance of defined benefit pension plan assets, interest rate assumptions and inflation rate assumptions. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. Off balance sheet arrangements. We do not have any off balance sheet financing agreements other than the outstanding letters of credit and operating leases discussed in Notes 8 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 15 Recent accounting pronouncements. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2009, we maintain three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Income or Statements of Cash Flows. We recorded net consolidated pension expense of $4.6 million in 2007, $2.0 million in 2008 and $15.6 million in 2009. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. Actual returns on plan assets during 2008 were significantly lower than our expected long term rate of return for both the U.S. and U.K. plans, and the resulting actuarial losses were recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as of December 31, 2008. As these actuarial losses began amortizing during 2009, pension expense increased during 2009 as compared to 2008. The discount rate we utilize for determining pension expense and pension obligations for our U.S. plan is based on discount rates derived from our expected future cash flows, and the discount rate we utilize for determining pension expense and pension obligations for our U.K. plan is based on the yields available on high quality corporate bond indices over the same duration as the U.K. plans expected future cash flows. Changes in our discount rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such expected cash flows during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following discount rate assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 Obligation at December 31, 2009 and expense in 2010 U.S. plan 5.90% 5.75% 5.80% U.K. plan 5.60% 6.20% 5.65% Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.75% to 5.50%) would have increased our U.S. plans 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.2 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 6.20% to 5.95%) would have increased our U.K. plans 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.6 million. Benefit payments to participants in our U.K. plan are adjusted for inflation annually, impacting both pension expense and pension obligations. The inflation rate we utilize for our U.K. plan is derived from the risk adjusted spread between fixed rate and variable rate U.K. government bond indices. Changes in our inflation rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such indices during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following inflation rate assumptions for our U.K. defined benefit pension plan: Inflation rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 Obligation at December 31, 2009 and expense in 2010 U.K. plan 3.20% 2.60% 3.60% In developing our expected long term rate of return assumptions, we evaluate historical market rates of return and input from our actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. All of our U.S. plans assets are invested in the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust sponsored by Contran to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefit plans sponsored by Contran and related companies. However, our U.S. plan assets are invested only in the portion of the CMRT that does not hold our common stock. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. Mr. Simmons is the sole trustee of the CMRT. The trustee of the CMRT, along with the CMRTs investment committee, of which Mr. Simmons is a member, actively manages the investments of the CMRT. The trustee and investment committee periodically change the asset mix of the CMRT based upon, among other things, advice from third party advisors and their respective expectations as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. At December 31, 2009, our portion of the CMRT had an aggregate asset value of $48.1 million. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, the assumed long term rate of return for our U.S. plan assets that were invested in the CMRT was 10%. In determining the appropriateness of the long term rate of return assumption, we considered, among other things, the historical rates of return, the current and projected asset mix and the investment objectives of the CMRTs managers for our portion of the CMRT. During the history of the CMRT from its inception in 1988 through December 31, 2009, the average annual rate of return earned by our portion of the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the net asset value per unit for each applicable year, has been 11%. All of our U.K. plans assets are invested in equity securities, fixed income securities and cash or cash equivalents with a target asset allocation determined by an investment committee appointed by the plans trustee. As a result of market fluctuations experienced and the strategic movement toward our long term funding and asset allocation strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2009 was 79% equity securities and 21% debt and other securities. Our future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for our U.K. plan is based on our target asset allocation assumption of 80% equity securities and 20% fixed income securities. Based on various factors, including economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during each of the preceding years and projected asset mix, our assumed long term rate of return for our pension expense was 6.50% for 2007, 6.65% for 2008 and 6.80% for 2009. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, we continue to evaluate our expected rate of return annually and adjust it as considered necessary. As part of this evaluation, we considered the historical long term average annual rates of return and recent economic downturn impacting virtually all global equity markets, and based on our evaluation, the recent declines in value for our plans assets are not indicative of a long term trend requiring an adjustment to our long term expected rate of return for any of our defined benefit pension plans. Actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are greater than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial gain, while actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are less than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial loss. All of these actuarial gains and losses are not recognized in earnings currently, but instead are deferred as part of AOCI and amortized into net income in the future as part of pension expense. However, any actuarial gains generated in future periods reduce the negative amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial losses, while any actuarial losses generated in future periods reduce the favorable amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial gains. We used the following long term rate of return assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Long term rates of return used for pension expense for the year ended December 31: 2008 2009 2010 U.S. plan 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% U.K. plan 6.65% 6.80% 7.50% Lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.00% to 9.50%) would have increased 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.2 million, and lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 6.80% to 6.30%) would have increased 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.6 million. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10%, a discount rate of 5.80% and various other assumptions, we estimate that our U.S. plan will have pension expense of approximately $5.6 million in 2010 as compared to $6.9 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2010, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2010, respectively. Pension expense for our U.S. plan will decrease in 2010 primarily as the result of actuarial gains recognized in AOCI as of December 31, 2009 resulting from our actual rate of return on plan assets exceeding our expected rate of return during 2009. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 7.50%, a discount rate of 5.65% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.61/1.00), we estimate that pension expense for our U.K. plan will approximate $11.2 million in 2010 compared to $8.5 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.9 million in 2010, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.7 million in 2010, respectively. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our pension plans. Pension expense for our U.K. plan will increase in 2010 primarily due to amortization related to actuarial losses recognized in AOCI as of December 31, 2009, higher interest costs resulting from decreases to our discount rate assumption and higher interest and service costs resulting from increases to our inflation rate assumption. Actuarial gains resulting from our actual rate of return on plan assets exceeding our expected rate of return during 2009 and the increase in our expected long term rate of return on plan assets as a result of a more aggressive asset allocation partially offset the impact of lowering the discount rate and raising the inflation rate for our U.K. plan. 16 We made cash contributions of $0.1 million in 2007 and nil in 2008 and 2009 to our U.S. plan and $10.5 million in 2007 and 2008 and $8.5 million in 2009 to our U.K. plan. Based upon the current funded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2009, we believe that we will be required to make contributions of $4.8 million to our U.S. plan and $6.9 million to our U.K. plan in 2010. The recent global economic downturn negatively impacted the performance of each plans assets during 2008, but the fair values of the plans assets recovered somewhat during 2009. The fair value of the assets of the U.S. plan was $98.4 million at December 31, 2007, $46.9 million at December 31, 2008 and $48.1 at December 31, 2009, and the fair value of the assets of the U.K. plan was $202.6 million at December 31, 2007, $114.9 million at December 31, 2008 and $145.6 million at December 31, 2009. The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on our funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). The effect of negative investment returns and a decrease to the discount rate during 2008 resulted in an underfunded status of our U.S. plan of $30.0 million at December 31, 2008 compared to a $23.4 million overfunded status at December 31, 2007. During 2009, investment returns slightly reduced the underfunded status of our U.S. plan to $29.0 million at December 31, 2009. During 2008, negative investment returns and a strengthening dollar versus the pound sterling both contributed to an increase in the underfunded status of our U.K. plan from $34.8 million at December 31, 2007 to $46.2 million at December 31, 2008, while the decrease in the discount rate and increase to the inflation rate, partially offset by the increases to the long term rate of return, for December 31, 2009 further increased the underfunded status for our U.K. plan to $90.6 million at December 31, 2009. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. We provide limited OPEB benefits to a portion of our U.S. employees upon retirement. We fund such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. We paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $1.3 million in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. We recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $3.1 million in 2007, $2.9 million in 2008 and $3.1 million in 2009. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate we utilize for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is based on discount rates derived from our expected future cash flows. Changes in our discount rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such expected cash flows during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following discount rate assumptions for our OPEB plan: Discount rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 Obligation at December 31, 2009 and expense in 2010 OPEB plan 5.90% 5.75% 5.65% Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.75% to 5.50%) would have had a nominal impact on our 2009 OPEB expense. Beginning January 1, 2010, we amended the benefit formula and the funding methodology for the majority of our participants. This plan amendment and other factors cause the expected future cash flows for our OPEB plan to differ from cash flows for our U.S. pension plan, and based on these cash flows, we will utilize a discount rate of 5.65% for our December 31, 2009 OPEB obligations and for our 2010 OPEB expense. We estimate the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by our actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, we consider industry trends, our actual healthcare cost experience and our future benefit structure. For 2009, we used a beginning health care trend rate of 5.46%. If the health care trend rate were increased or decreased by 1.0% for each year, OPEB expense for 2009 would have increased by approximately $0.5 million or decreased by approximately $0.4 million, respectively. Due to the plan amendments discussed above, we revised our health care trend assumptions. For our OPEB obligations as of December 31, 2009 and our 2010 OPEB expense, we are using a beginning health care trend rate of 8.5%, which is projected to be reduced to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2017. Based on a discount rate of 5.65%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, we estimate that OPEB expense will approximate $1.0 million in 2010 compared to $3.1 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would have a nominal impact on estimated OPEB expense in 2010. A 1.0% increase or decrease in the health care trend rate for each year would increase or decrease the estimated service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2010, respectively. Based upon the actuarial assumptions being used in 2009, we believe we will be required to pay OPEB benefits of $1.4 million in 2010, net of retiree contributions. OPEB expense will decrease in 2010 primarily as the result of actuarial gains recognized in AOCI as of December 31, 2009 resulting from plan amendments and changing assumptions regarding health care trends and other demographic data. Environmental matters. See Business Regulatory and environmental matters in Item 1 and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Affiliate transactions. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. We continuously consider, review and evaluate such transactions, and we understand that Contran and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that we might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of certain related party transactions that we were a party to during 2007, 2008 and 2009. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. If we utilize our borrowing capacity in the future, we would be exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. We typically do not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage our interest rate market risk. We had no outstanding bank indebtedness at December 31, 2008 and 2009. Our borrowings accrue interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because our bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. Foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. We do not enter into currency forward contracts to manage our foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See Results of Operations European operations in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of our long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate us to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to us that cannot be passed on to our customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to our suppliers that are not passed on to us in the form of lower raw material prices. However, our ability to offset increased material costs with higher selling prices increased in the last several years, as many of our LTAs have either expired or have been renegotiated with price adjustments that take into account raw material, labor and energy cost fluctuations. We do not engage in commodity hedging programs. Raw materials. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in availability and prices for our critical raw materials. From time to time we enter into long term supply agreements for certain critical raw materials, including sponge, rutile and certain alloys, and we have long term agreements in place for the majority of our expected requirements for titanium sponge through 2025. We also have closed loop arrangements with certain of our customers for the purchase of titanium scrap, which provide certainty of supply and price stability. We do not generally enter into long term supply agreements for all of our other critical raw material requirements. We believe the risk of unavailability of our critical raw materials is low considering our existing LTAs with our raw material suppliers and other sources available to us, and the risk of price variability for our critical raw materials will be somewhat mitigated by our ability to increase the prices charged to our customers as noted above. Securities prices. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, we held certain marketable securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities. The aggregate market value of these equity securities was $16.4 million at December 31, 2008 and $20.6 million at December 31, 2009. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would have been $1.6 million at December 31, 2008 and $2.1 million at December 31, 2009. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest bearing notes receivable. We held a note receivable from CompX with a principal amount of $42.7 million at December 31, 2008 and $42.5 million at December 31, 2009. Our note receivable accrues interest at variable rates, related to the spread over LIBOR. Because our note receivable reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable is believed to approximate fair value. See Notes 11 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 17 We held two notes receivable from Contran with a combined principal amount of $50.5 million at December 31, 2009. Our notes receivable accrue interest at variable rates, related to the prime rate, or in some cases, a specified spread under the prime rate. Because interest rates of our notes receivable reprice with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable are believed to approximate fair value. See Notes 11 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY General overview. We are a vertically integrated producer of titanium sponge, melted products and a variety of mill products for commercial aerospace, military, industrial and other applications. We are one of the worlds leading producers of titanium melted products (ingot, electrode and slab) and mill products (billet, bar, plate, sheet and strip). We are the only producer with major titanium production facilities in both the United States and Europe, the worlds principal markets for titanium. We are currently the largest producer of titanium sponge, a key raw material, in the United States. We sell our titanium melted and mill products into four worldwide market sectors. Aggregate shipment volumes for titanium mill products in 2009 were derived from the following sectors: TIMET Titanium Industry (1) Mill product shipments % of total Mill product shipments % of total (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Commercial aerospace 7,643 67% 29,800 46% Military 1,942 17% 5,800 9% Industrial 1,558 14% 27,600 43% Emerging markets 282 2% 1,700 2% 11,425 100% 64,900 100% (1) Estimates based on our titanium industry experience and information obtained from publicly available external resources (e.g., United States Geological Survey, International Titanium Association and Japan Titanium Society). The titanium industry derives a substantial portion of its demand from the highly cyclical commercial aerospace sector. As shown in the table above, our business is more dependent on commercial aerospace demand than is the overall titanium industry. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make estimates and judgments, and select from a range of possible estimates and assumptions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory allowances, asset lives, impairments of investments, the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property and equipment, pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and the related underlying actuarial assumptions, the realization of deferred income tax assets, and accruals for asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation, litigation, income tax and other contingencies. We base our estimates and judgments, to varying degrees, on historical experience, advice of external specialists and various other factors we believe to be prudent under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts and such estimates, assumptions and judgments are regularly subject to revision. We consider the policies and estimates discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their application requires our most significant judgments in estimating matters for financial reporting that are inherently uncertain. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these policies and estimates, as well as discussion of additional accounting policies and estimates. Inventory valuation. We provide reserves for estimated obsolete or unmarketable inventories equal to the difference between the cost of inventories and the estimated net realizable value using assumptions about future demand for our products, alternate uses of the inventory and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by us, we may be required to recognize additional inventory reserves. Impairment of marketable securities. We evaluate our investments whenever events or conditions occur to indicate that the fair value of such investments has declined below their carrying amounts. If the carrying amount for an investment declines below its historical cost basis, we evaluate all available positive and negative evidence including, but not limited to, the extent and duration of the impairment, business prospects for the investee and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a reasonable period of time sufficient for the recovery of fair value. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the carrying amount of the investment is written down to fair value. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our analysis of our investment in Valhi common stock. Impairment of long lived assets. Generally, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets may not be recoverable, we undertake an evaluation of the assets or asset group. If this evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment would typically be calculated using discounted expected future cash flows or appraised values. All relevant factors are considered in determining whether an impairment exists. We did not evaluate any long lived assets for impairment during 2009 because no such impairment indicators were present. If decreased demand for our products continues or worsens, we may be required to reduce our production levels by idling certain equipment or facilities. In that event, we may be required to evaluate certain of our long lived assets for impairment, in which case it is possible we might conclude that recognition of an impairment charge was appropriate. Income taxes. We record a valuation allowance if realization of our gross deferred income tax assets is not more likely than not after giving consideration to recent historical results and near term projections, and we also consider the availability of tax planning strategies that might impact the need for, or amount of, any valuation allowance. We also evaluate at the end of each reporting period whether some or all of the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are permanently reinvested (as that term is defined in generally accepted accounting principles). While we may have concluded in the past that some undistributed earnings are permanently reinvested, facts and circumstances can change in the future, such as a change in the expectation regarding the capital needs of our foreign subsidiaries, which could result in a conclusion that some or all of the undistributed earnings are no longer permanently reinvested. If our prior conclusions change, we would recognize a deferred income tax liability in an amount equal to the estimated incremental U.S. income tax and withholding tax liability that would be generated if all of such previously considered permanently reinvested undistributed earnings were distributed to us. We did not change our conclusions on our undistributed foreign earnings in 2009. Beginning in 2007, we began recording reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, for tax positions where we believe it is more likely than not our position will not prevail with the applicable tax authorities. From time to time, tax authorities will examine certain of our income tax returns. Tax authorities may interpret tax regulations differently than we do. Judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits and changes to or further interpretations of regulations, thereby resulting in an increase or decrease in the amount we are required to accrue for uncertain tax positions (and therefore a decrease or increase in our reported net income in the period of such change). Our reserve for uncertain tax positions changed during 2009. See Results of Operations Income taxes for discussion of our analysis of our deferred income tax valuation allowances and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our uncertain tax positions. Pension and OPEB expenses and obligations. Our pension and OPEB expenses and obligations are calculated based on several estimates, including discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets. We review these rates annually with the assistance of our actuaries. See further discussion of the factors considered and potential effect of these estimates in Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. 11 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of 2009 to 2008 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2008 % of total net sales 2009 % of total net sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 115.5 10 % $ 69.0 9 % Mill products 913.5 79 % 635.2 82 % Other titanium products 122.5 11 % 69.8 9 % Total net sales 1,151.5 100 % 774.0 100 % Cost of sales 863.8 75 % 660.7 85 % Gross margin 287.7 25 % 113.3 15 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 66.5 6 % 60.4 8 % Other (expense) income, net (1.5 ) 2.0 Operating income $ 219.7 19 % $ 54.9 7 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 3,850 2,750 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 30.00 $ 25.10 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 15,050 11,425 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 60.70 $ 55.60 Net sales. Our net sales were $774.0 million for 2009 compared to net sales of $1,151.5 million for 2008. The 33% decrease in net sales was principally the result of reduced volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower average selling prices in 2009 compared to 2008. Product shipment volumes decreased 29% for melted products and 24% for mill products from 2008 to 2009, as overall titanium demand declined due to the weak global economy and the effects of production delays within the commercial aerospace sector. Additionally, as a result of these production delays, we believe many of our customers implemented strategies to reduce excess inventories and to maximize operating cash flows. Average selling prices decreased 16% for melted products and 8% for mill products over these same periods due to competitive pricing pressures resulting from lower demand for titanium products and a decline in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap. The decline in raw material costs has contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long term customer agreements, in part due to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements. Gross margin. For 2009, our gross margin was $113.3 million as compared to $287.7 million for 2008, primarily reflecting the effects of lower volumes and average selling prices for our melted and mill products. Due to low utilization of our production capacity, the favorable impacts on our gross margin from declining raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, were largely offset by higher per unit overhead costs. In addition, abnormally low production throughout our major manufacturing operations resulted in unabsorbed fixed overhead costs of $23.2 million for 2009. Operating income. Our operating income for 2009 was $54.9 million compared to $219.7 million during 2008 primarily reflecting the decline in gross margin. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2009, we recognized other non operating income of $2.4 million. During 2008, we recognized other non operating income of $19.4 million consisting primarily of $9.9 million in foreign currency gains as the dollar strengthened against the pound sterling and the euro in the second half of 2008 and a $6.7 million gain on sale of an investment discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 37% in 2009 compared to 29% in 2008. Our effective income tax rate for 2009 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to the net effects of lower earnings, changes in foreign tax law that caused us to revise our judgments regarding our ability to utilize certain foreign tax attributes and incremental taxes on foreign earnings. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in the 2008 period was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization prior to 2008. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2009 includes: An income tax benefit of $5.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; and An income tax expense of $3.0 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. Our income tax expense in 2008 includes: An income tax benefit of $14.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $1.9 million related to the reversal of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of an investment; and An income tax expense of $2.7 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. U.K. legislation enacted in 2009 will increase our future effective income tax rate and our cash tax payments. 12 Comparison of 2008 to 2007 Summarized financial information. The following table summarizes certain information regarding our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our reported average selling prices reflect actual selling prices after the effects of currency exchange rates, customer and product mix and other related factors throughout the periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2007 % of total net sales 2008 % of total net sales (In millions, except product shipment data) Net sales: Melted products $ 191.9 15 % $ 115.5 10 % Mill products 952.0 74 % 913.5 79 % Other titanium products 135.0 11 % 122.5 11 % Total net sales 1,278.9 100 % 1,151.5 100 % Cost of sales 831.5 65 % 863.8 75 % Gross margin 447.4 35 % 287.7 25 % Selling, general, administrative and development expense 69.0 5 % 66.5 6 % Other expense, net 6.4 1 % 1.5 Operating income $ 372.0 29 % $ 219.7 19 % Melted product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 4,720 3,850 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 40.65 $ 30.00 Mill product shipments: Volume (metric tons) 14,230 15,050 Average selling price (per kilogram) $ 66.90 $ 60.70 Net sales. Our net sales were $1,151.5 million for 2008 compared to net sales of $1,278.9 million for 2007. Average selling prices for melted and mill products decreased 26% and 9%, respectively, from 2007 to 2008. Revisions and delays in the build out schedules of certain commercial aircraft, and the resulting effects on production and inventory levels throughout the supply chain, negatively impacted demand and selling prices for titanium products in 2008 compared to 2007. Declines in raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, also contributed to lower selling prices for certain products under long term agreements during 2008, due in part to raw material indexed pricing adjustments included in certain of these agreements. Gross margin. During 2008, our gross margin was $287.7 million as compared to $447.4 million for 2007, primarily reflecting decreases in the average selling prices for our melted and mill products. The favorable impacts of declining costs for titanium scrap in 2008 were substantially offset by higher costs of production, primarily energy, and certain other raw materials. Operating income. Our operating income for 2008 was $219.7 million compared to $372.0 million during 2007 primarily due to the decline in gross margin. The 2007 period also includes a $6.0 million expense related to previously capitalized costs associated with the planning and engineering for a new VDP sponge plant, based on our decision to delay the project indefinitely. Net other non operating income and expense. During 2008, we recognized other non operating income of $19.4 million consisting primarily of $9.9 million in foreign currency gains as the dollar strengthened against the pound sterling and the euro in the second half of 2008 and a $6.7 million gain on sale of an investment discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2007, we recognized other non operating income of $24.2 million consisting primarily of an $18.3 million gain on the sale of our investment in CompX discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 29% in 2008 compared to 30% in 2007. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, and as a result, the geographic mix of our pre tax income or loss can impact our overall effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate for 2008 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to a change in the mix of our pre tax earnings, with a higher percentage of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions in 2008, primarily as a result of the implementation of an internal corporate reorganization in 2007. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a tabular reconciliation of our statutory income tax expense to our actual tax expense. Some of the more significant items impacting this reconciliation are summarized below. Our income tax expense in 2008 includes: An income tax benefit of $14.4 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007; An income tax benefit of $1.9 million related to the reversal of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of an investment; and An income tax expense of $2.7 million related to an increase in our reserve for uncertain tax positions. Our income tax expense in 2007 includes: An income tax benefit of $12.6 million related to an internal reorganization we implemented in the second quarter of 2007 and An income tax benefit of $6.5 million related primarily to the reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward following the sale of our interest in CompX. European operations We have substantial operations located in the United Kingdom, France and Italy. Approximately 33% of our sales originated in Europe for 2009, a portion of which were denominated in foreign currency, principally the British pound sterling or the euro. Certain raw material costs, principally purchases of titanium sponge and alloys for our European operations, are denominated in U.S. dollars, while labor and other production costs are primarily denominated in local currencies. The functional currencies of our European subsidiaries are those of their respective countries, and the European subsidiaries are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. Our European operations may incur borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars or in their respective functional currencies. Our export sales from the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars and are not subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. We do not use currency contracts to hedge our currency exposures. The translated U.S. dollar value of our foreign sales and operating results are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations which may favorably or adversely impact reported earnings and may affect the comparability of period to period operating results. By applying the exchange rates prevailing during the prior year period to our local currency results of operations for the current year period, the translation impact of currency rate fluctuations can be estimated. 13 As the U.S. dollar strengthened versus the British pound but weakened versus the euro in 2008 compared to 2007 and strengthened versus the British pound and the euro in 2009 compared to 2008, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates had the following effects on our sales and operating income: 2008 versus 2007 2009 versus 2008 (In millions) Increase (decrease) in: Net sales $ (4.3 ) $ (38.4 ) Operating income 0.9 1.1 Outlook Shipments of our titanium mill products for 2009 were 24% lower than shipments in 2008, which reflects softness in demand, particularly within the commercial aerospace sector. In addition to the ongoing weakness in the global economy, circumstances within the commercial aerospace market contributed to weak demand and lower prices for titanium products. Reduced passenger traffic and reduced financing available to commercial airlines and aircraft leasing companies have contributed to reduced order rates and uncertainty regarding production schedules for commercial aircraft. Further, excess supply chain inventories, particularly as a result of adjustments to production schedules for Boeing and Airbus, and other factors, including delays in development and delivery of the Boeing 787, continue to impact demand for titanium products. We expect customer demand for our products to stabilize and show improvement as these factors begin to be resolved and inventory levels begin to stabilize during the next year. As a result of long term agreements with a majority of our major customers, many of which specify annual pricing mechanisms and minimum purchase commitments, we do not anticipate significant changes in our overall sales volumes for 2010 as compared to levels achieved during 2009, but average selling prices will likely be somewhat lower in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of raw materials index price adjustments in certain of our long term agreements. Current customer order levels indicate that the significant destocking activity in the titanium supply chain during 2009 has abated. Also, in recent months, open market scrap prices have been increasing, which we believe is an indication that industry demand has stabilized and may soon begin to increase. Boeing recently completed successful initial test flights for the Boeing 787 and continues to target first customer deliveries of the aircraft in the fourth quarter of 2010. If Boeing achieves this timeline, we anticipate production rates throughout the commercial aerospace supply chain will accelerate over the next two to three years, which should increase customer demand for our products and positively affect our sales and operating results. We continue to monitor our production rates, global workforce and cost structures in response to anticipated demand for our products. Although per unit costs for both melted and mill products were favorably impacted during 2009 by declining raw material costs, primarily titanium scrap, such cost reductions have been offset by higher per unit production and overhead costs resulting from allocation of such costs over lower production volumes. Through prudent management of production rates and costs, as well as conservative capital investment, we continue to maintain positive cash flows and a strong balance sheet, including $169.4 million of cash, borrowing availability under our bank credit agreements of approximately $211.4 million and no bank debt as of December 31, 2009. We have maintained positive earnings and generated significant operating cash flows during the most severe recession in decades, and we expect to continue to adjust our cost structure and production rates as necessary to achieve positive operating cash flow and preserve our financial strength. We continue to believe the overall industry outlook supports a long term favorable trend in demand for titanium products. This trend is driven in part by the long term demand in the commercial aerospace industry for a new generation of more fuel efficient aircraft that require a significantly higher percentage of titanium than earlier models. In January 2010, The Airline Monitor, a leading aerospace publication, issued its semi annual forecast for commercial aircraft deliveries. Aggregate annual deliveries of aircraft for Boeing and Airbus are expected to reach record numbers during each year from 2011 through 2013 (totaling at least 1,010 aircraft deliveries each year during the period). Even after the next expected peak in overall deliveries of Boeing and Airbus aircraft (forecast for 2012 at 1,025 units), the demand for titanium is expected to continue to increase significantly due to increased deliveries of twin aisle aircraft and the increased production rates of next generation commercial aircraft, both of which consume large amounts of titanium metal. Beyond 2014, projected aircraft deliveries remain strong as fuel efficiency and expansion of the global fleet in developing areas, such as Asia, are expected to be key drivers of long term demand. Although the duration of the current global recession may impact the timing and rate of the demand recovery, this recent forecast supports our belief that long term industry wide demand trends will remain strong for the foreseeable future. Our strategic plans to improve our production capabilities are focused on opportunities to improve our operating flexibility, efficiency and cost structure to meet our customers long term needs. In particular, we continue to enhance our ability to meet our current and prospective customers needs and strengthen our position as a reliable supplier in markets where technical ability and precision are critical. We have been successful over the last several years in establishing significant flexibility and cost advantages in our entire manufacturing process. We believe our efficient manufacturing processes and strong balance sheet have kept us well positioned in the current economic environment, and we believe our financial strength will allow us to continue to invest in our business, fully serve our current and prospective customers and pursue strategic opportunities when appropriate. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our consolidated cash flows for each of the past three years are presented below. The following should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. Year ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 192.1 $ 197.6 $ 206.8 Investing activities (108.2 ) (142.6 ) (64.1 ) Financing activities (24.5 ) (97.7 ) (20.3 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities $ 59.4 $ (42.7 ) $ 122.4 Operating activities. Cash flow from operations is considered a primary source of our liquidity. Changes in pricing, production volume and customer demand, among other things, could significantly affect our liquidity. Cash provided by operating activities increased $9.2 million, from $197.6 million in 2008 to $206.8 million in 2009. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: operating income declined by $164.8 million in 2009; net cash provided by operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities increased by $129.2 million in 2009 in response to changing working capital requirements resulting primarily from declining inventory levels; and net cash paid for income taxes declined by $38.2 million in 2009 primarily due to lower taxable income in 2009. Cash provided by operating activities increased $5.5 million, from $192.1 million in 2007 to $197.6 in 2008. The net effects of the following significant items contributed to the overall increase in cash provided by operating activities: operating income declined by $152.3 million in 2008; net cash used in operations resulting from changes in receivables, inventories, payables and accrued liabilities declined by $42.1 million in 2008 in response to changing working capital requirements and improved collections of receivables; and net cash paid for income taxes declined by $105.0 million in 2008 primarily due to lower taxable income in 2008. Investing activities. Cash flows used in our investing activities changed from $108.2 million in 2007 to $142.6 million in 2008 to $64.1 million in 2009. Our capital expenditures were $100.9 million during 2007, $121.3 million in 2008 and $33.0 million in 2009. Capital projects and other significant investing activities include the following: During 2007 and 2008, we had construction underway for the first and second phases of our EB melt capacity expansion at our facility in Morgantown and other capacity expansion projects in the U.S. and Europe. Most of our capacity expansion projects are now substantially complete, and 2009 capital spending was primarily limited to those projects required to properly maintain our equipment and facilities. 14 We purchased $26.4 million in marketable equity securities during 2008 and $0.7 million during 2009. We entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility with Contran Corporation during 2009, pursuant to which we loaned Contran an aggregate of $33.8 million as of December 31, 2009. We received principal payments on notes receivable from CompX International Inc. of $2.6 million in 2007, $7.3 million in 2008 and $0.5 million in 2009. Financing activities. We had no net borrowing activity during 2007, 2008 and 2009. Other significant items included in our cash flows from financing activities included: dividends paid on our common stock of $13.7 million in 2007 and $54.5 million in 2008; dividends paid on our Series A Preferred Stock of $5.6 million in 2007, $0.3 million in 2008 and $0.2 million in 2009; dividends paid to CEZUS of $8.1 million in 2007, $6.8 million in 2008 and $5.5 million in 2009; and treasury stock purchases of $36.5 million during 2008 and $14.7 million in 2009. In February 2009, our board of directors decided to suspend our quarterly dividend after considering the current economic and financial environment. Future cash requirements Liquidity. Our primary source of liquidity on an ongoing basis is our cash flows from operating activities and borrowing availability under various credit facilities. We generally use these amounts to (i) fund capital expenditures, (ii) repay indebtedness incurred primarily for working capital purposes and (iii) provide for the payment of dividends. From time to time we will incur indebtedness, generally to (i) fund short term working capital needs, (ii) refinance existing indebtedness, (iii) make investments in marketable and other securities (including the acquisition of securities issued by our subsidiaries and affiliates) or (iv) fund major capital expenditures or the acquisition of other assets outside the ordinary course of business. We routinely evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our alternative uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flows. As a result of this process, we have in the past, and in light of our current outlook, may in the future, seek to raise additional capital, modify our common and preferred dividend policies, restructure ownership interests, incur, refinance or restructure indebtedness, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase or redeem Series A Preferred Stock, sell assets, or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. In the normal course of business, we investigate, evaluate, discuss and engage in acquisition, joint venture, strategic relationship and other business combination opportunities in the titanium, specialty metal and other industries. In the event of any future acquisition or joint venture opportunities, we may consider using then available liquidity, issuing equity securities or incurring additional indebtedness. We paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.075 per share in 2007 and four such quarterly cash dividends in 2008. In the first quarter of 2009, our board of directors decided to suspend our quarterly dividend after considering the current economic and financial environment. We believe it is in our best interest to enhance our financial strength which will allow us to continue investing in our business and taking advantage of potential opportunities in our industry, including acquisitions, long term partnering agreements or joint ventures, if and when such strategic opportunities arise. Additionally, we will have the flexibility to repurchase shares of our common stock under our previously announced repurchase programs without sacrificing our ability to pursue other opportunities in our industry. The declaration and payment of future dividends will be dependent upon the boards consideration of our cash requirements, contractual commitments, including applicable credit facility covenants, strategic plans and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. At December 31, 2009, we had aggregate borrowing availability under our existing U.S and European credit facilities of $211.4 million, and we could borrow all such amounts without violating any covenants of our credit facilities. We had an aggregate of $169.4 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our U.S. credit facility matures in February 2011, and our U.K. credit facilities mature in August 2012. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based upon our expectations of our operating performance, the anticipated demands on our cash resources, borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities and anticipated borrowing capacity after the maturity of these credit facilities, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations for the short term (defined as the next twelve month period) and our long term obligations. Repurchases of common stock. At February 19, 2010, we had approximately $48.8 million available for repurchase of our common stock under the authorizations described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital expenditures. We currently estimate we will invest a total of approximately $35 million to $40 million for capital expenditures during 2010. In response to current economic conditions, our planned capital expenditures are limited to those required to properly maintain our equipment and facilities. Capital spending for 2010 is expected to be funded by cash flows from operating activities or existing cash resources and available credit facilities. We continue to evaluate additional opportunities to improve or replace productive assets including capital projects, acquisitions or other investments which, if consummated, any required funding would be provided by existing cash resources or borrowings under our U.S. or European credit facilities. Contractual commitments. As more fully described in Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we were a party to various agreements at December 31, 2009 that contractually commit us to pay certain amounts in the future. The following table summarizes such contractual commitments that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including pricing, quantity and date of payment: Payment Due Date 2010 2011/2012 2013/2014 2015 & After Total (In millions) Operating leases $ 6.6 $ 10.9 $ 8.2 $ 25.0 $ 50.7 Purchase obligations: Raw materials (1) 82.7 159.6 136.7 449.6 828.6 Other (2) 46.4 38.1 31.6 50.7 166.8 Other contractual obligations (3) 10.1 0.2 10.3 $ 145.8 $ 208.8 $ 176.5 $ 525.3 $ 1,056.4 (1) These obligations generally relate to the purchase of titanium sponge pursuant to LTAs that expire at varying dates (as described in Item 1: Business) and various other open orders or commitments for the purchase of raw materials. Certain of the LTAs have annually negotiated prices and ranges of volumes, and we have assumed minimum required volumes and minimum or estimated prices, as deemed appropriate. Certain of the LTAs contain automatic renewal provisions; however, we have only included the purchase commitments associated with the initial terms of each LTA. (2) These obligations generally relate to contractual purchase obligations for conversion services, certain operating fees paid to CEZUS for use of a portion of its Ugine plant pursuant to an agreement expiring in 2015 (as described in Item 2: Properties), and various other open orders for the purchase of energy, utilities and property and equipment. These obligations are generally based on an average price and an assumed constant mix of services purchased, as appropriate. All open orders are primarily for delivery in 2010. (3) These other obligations include an obligation under a workers compensation bond, capital and interest payments under capital lease agreements and income taxes payable, all of which are recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, we have an obligation to Contran under an intercorporate services agreement (ISA) which will be recorded ratably over the 2010 service period. We expect to renew the ISA annually. The above table does not reflect any amounts that we might pay to fund our defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans, as the timing and amount of any such future funding are unknown and dependent on, among other things, the future performance of defined benefit pension plan assets, interest rate assumptions and inflation rate assumptions. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity and Capital Resources Defined benefit pension plans and Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. Off balance sheet arrangements. We do not have any off balance sheet financing agreements other than the outstanding letters of credit and operating leases discussed in Notes 8 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 15 Recent accounting pronouncements. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2009, we maintain three defined benefit pension plans one each in the U.S., the U.K. and France. The majority of the discussion below relates to the U.S. and U.K. plans, as the French plan is not material to our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Income or Statements of Cash Flows. We recorded net consolidated pension expense of $4.6 million in 2007, $2.0 million in 2008 and $15.6 million in 2009. Pension expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of return. Actual returns on plan assets during 2008 were significantly lower than our expected long term rate of return for both the U.S. and U.K. plans, and the resulting actuarial losses were recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as of December 31, 2008. As these actuarial losses began amortizing during 2009, pension expense increased during 2009 as compared to 2008. The discount rate we utilize for determining pension expense and pension obligations for our U.S. plan is based on discount rates derived from our expected future cash flows, and the discount rate we utilize for determining pension expense and pension obligations for our U.K. plan is based on the yields available on high quality corporate bond indices over the same duration as the U.K. plans expected future cash flows. Changes in our discount rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such expected cash flows during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following discount rate assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Discount rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 Obligation at December 31, 2009 and expense in 2010 U.S. plan 5.90% 5.75% 5.80% U.K. plan 5.60% 6.20% 5.65% Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.75% to 5.50%) would have increased our U.S. plans 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.2 million, and lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 6.20% to 5.95%) would have increased our U.K. plans 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.6 million. Benefit payments to participants in our U.K. plan are adjusted for inflation annually, impacting both pension expense and pension obligations. The inflation rate we utilize for our U.K. plan is derived from the risk adjusted spread between fixed rate and variable rate U.K. government bond indices. Changes in our inflation rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such indices during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following inflation rate assumptions for our U.K. defined benefit pension plan: Inflation rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 Obligation at December 31, 2009 and expense in 2010 U.K. plan 3.20% 2.60% 3.60% In developing our expected long term rate of return assumptions, we evaluate historical market rates of return and input from our actuaries, including a review of asset class return expectations as well as long term inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity (large cap, small cap and international) and bond (corporate and government) indices as well as anticipation that the plans active investment managers will generate premiums above the standard market projections. All of our U.S. plans assets are invested in the Combined Master Retirement Trust ("CMRT"). The CMRT is a collective investment trust sponsored by Contran to permit the collective investment by certain master trusts which fund certain employee benefit plans sponsored by Contran and related companies. However, our U.S. plan assets are invested only in the portion of the CMRT that does not hold our common stock. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The CMRTs long term investment objective is to provide a rate of return exceeding a composite of broad market equity and fixed income indices (including the S&P 500 and certain Russell indices) utilizing both third party investment managers as well as investments directed by Mr. Simmons. Mr. Simmons is the sole trustee of the CMRT. The trustee of the CMRT, along with the CMRTs investment committee, of which Mr. Simmons is a member, actively manages the investments of the CMRT. The trustee and investment committee periodically change the asset mix of the CMRT based upon, among other things, advice from third party advisors and their respective expectations as to what asset mix will generate the greatest overall return. At December 31, 2009, our portion of the CMRT had an aggregate asset value of $48.1 million. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, the assumed long term rate of return for our U.S. plan assets that were invested in the CMRT was 10%. In determining the appropriateness of the long term rate of return assumption, we considered, among other things, the historical rates of return, the current and projected asset mix and the investment objectives of the CMRTs managers for our portion of the CMRT. During the history of the CMRT from its inception in 1988 through December 31, 2009, the average annual rate of return earned by our portion of the CMRT, as calculated based on the average percentage change in the net asset value per unit for each applicable year, has been 11%. All of our U.K. plans assets are invested in equity securities, fixed income securities and cash or cash equivalents with a target asset allocation determined by an investment committee appointed by the plans trustee. As a result of market fluctuations experienced and the strategic movement toward our long term funding and asset allocation strategies, actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2009 was 79% equity securities and 21% debt and other securities. Our future expected long term rate of return on plan assets for our U.K. plan is based on our target asset allocation assumption of 80% equity securities and 20% fixed income securities. Based on various factors, including economic and market conditions, gains on the plan assets during each of the preceding years and projected asset mix, our assumed long term rate of return for our pension expense was 6.50% for 2007, 6.65% for 2008 and 6.80% for 2009. Although the expected rate of return is a long term measure, we continue to evaluate our expected rate of return annually and adjust it as considered necessary. As part of this evaluation, we considered the historical long term average annual rates of return and recent economic downturn impacting virtually all global equity markets, and based on our evaluation, the recent declines in value for our plans assets are not indicative of a long term trend requiring an adjustment to our long term expected rate of return for any of our defined benefit pension plans. Actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are greater than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial gain, while actual returns on plan assets for a given year that are less than the assumed rates of return result in an actuarial loss. All of these actuarial gains and losses are not recognized in earnings currently, but instead are deferred as part of AOCI and amortized into net income in the future as part of pension expense. However, any actuarial gains generated in future periods reduce the negative amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial losses, while any actuarial losses generated in future periods reduce the favorable amortization effect of any cumulative actuarial gains. We used the following long term rate of return assumptions for our defined benefit pension plans: Long term rates of return used for pension expense for the year ended December 31: 2008 2009 2010 U.S. plan 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% U.K. plan 6.65% 6.80% 7.50% Lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.S. plans assets by 0.5% (from 10.00% to 9.50%) would have increased 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.2 million, and lowering the expected long term rate of return on our U.K. plans assets by 0.5% (from 6.80% to 6.30%) would have increased 2009 pension expense by approximately $0.6 million. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 10%, a discount rate of 5.80% and various other assumptions, we estimate that our U.S. plan will have pension expense of approximately $5.6 million in 2010 as compared to $6.9 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.1 million in 2010, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2010, respectively. Pension expense for our U.S. plan will decrease in 2010 primarily as the result of actuarial gains recognized in AOCI as of December 31, 2009 resulting from our actual rate of return on plan assets exceeding our expected rate of return during 2009. Based on an expected rate of return on plan assets of 7.50%, a discount rate of 5.65% and various other assumptions (including an exchange rate of $1.61/1.00), we estimate that pension expense for our U.K. plan will approximate $11.2 million in 2010 compared to $8.5 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.9 million in 2010, respectively. A 0.5% increase or decrease in the long term rate of return would decrease or increase estimated pension expense by approximately $0.7 million in 2010, respectively. Actual future pension expense will depend on actual future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in our pension plans. Pension expense for our U.K. plan will increase in 2010 primarily due to amortization related to actuarial losses recognized in AOCI as of December 31, 2009, higher interest costs resulting from decreases to our discount rate assumption and higher interest and service costs resulting from increases to our inflation rate assumption. Actuarial gains resulting from our actual rate of return on plan assets exceeding our expected rate of return during 2009 and the increase in our expected long term rate of return on plan assets as a result of a more aggressive asset allocation partially offset the impact of lowering the discount rate and raising the inflation rate for our U.K. plan. 16 We made cash contributions of $0.1 million in 2007 and nil in 2008 and 2009 to our U.S. plan and $10.5 million in 2007 and 2008 and $8.5 million in 2009 to our U.K. plan. Based upon the current funded status of the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2009, we believe that we will be required to make contributions of $4.8 million to our U.S. plan and $6.9 million to our U.K. plan in 2010. The recent global economic downturn negatively impacted the performance of each plans assets during 2008, but the fair values of the plans assets recovered somewhat during 2009. The fair value of the assets of the U.S. plan was $98.4 million at December 31, 2007, $46.9 million at December 31, 2008 and $48.1 at December 31, 2009, and the fair value of the assets of the U.K. plan was $202.6 million at December 31, 2007, $114.9 million at December 31, 2008 and $145.6 million at December 31, 2009. The combination of actual investment returns, changing discount rates and changes in other assumptions has a significant effect on our funded plan status (plan assets compared to projected benefit obligations). The effect of negative investment returns and a decrease to the discount rate during 2008 resulted in an underfunded status of our U.S. plan of $30.0 million at December 31, 2008 compared to a $23.4 million overfunded status at December 31, 2007. During 2009, investment returns slightly reduced the underfunded status of our U.S. plan to $29.0 million at December 31, 2009. During 2008, negative investment returns and a strengthening dollar versus the pound sterling both contributed to an increase in the underfunded status of our U.K. plan from $34.8 million at December 31, 2007 to $46.2 million at December 31, 2008, while the decrease in the discount rate and increase to the inflation rate, partially offset by the increases to the long term rate of return, for December 31, 2009 further increased the underfunded status for our U.K. plan to $90.6 million at December 31, 2009. Postretirement benefit plans other than pensions. We provide limited OPEB benefits to a portion of our U.S. employees upon retirement. We fund such OPEB benefits as they are incurred, net of any retiree contributions. We paid OPEB benefits, net of retiree contributions, of $1.3 million in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. We recorded consolidated OPEB expense of $3.1 million in 2007, $2.9 million in 2008 and $3.1 million in 2009. OPEB expense for these periods was calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long term health care trend rate. The discount rate we utilize for determining OPEB expense and OPEB obligations is based on discount rates derived from our expected future cash flows. Changes in our discount rate over the past three years reflect the fluctuations in such expected cash flows during that period. We establish a rate that is used to determine obligations as of the year end date and expense or income for the subsequent year. We used the following discount rate assumptions for our OPEB plan: Discount rates used for: Obligation at December 31, 2007 and expense in 2008 Obligation at December 31, 2008 and expense in 2009 Obligation at December 31, 2009 and expense in 2010 OPEB plan 5.90% 5.75% 5.65% Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.25% (from 5.75% to 5.50%) would have had a nominal impact on our 2009 OPEB expense. Beginning January 1, 2010, we amended the benefit formula and the funding methodology for the majority of our participants. This plan amendment and other factors cause the expected future cash flows for our OPEB plan to differ from cash flows for our U.S. pension plan, and based on these cash flows, we will utilize a discount rate of 5.65% for our December 31, 2009 OPEB obligations and for our 2010 OPEB expense. We estimate the expected long term health care trend rate based upon input from specialists in this area, as provided by our actuaries. In estimating the health care trend rate, we consider industry trends, our actual healthcare cost experience and our future benefit structure. For 2009, we used a beginning health care trend rate of 5.46%. If the health care trend rate were increased or decreased by 1.0% for each year, OPEB expense for 2009 would have increased by approximately $0.5 million or decreased by approximately $0.4 million, respectively. Due to the plan amendments discussed above, we revised our health care trend assumptions. For our OPEB obligations as of December 31, 2009 and our 2010 OPEB expense, we are using a beginning health care trend rate of 8.5%, which is projected to be reduced to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2017. Based on a discount rate of 5.65%, a health care trend rate as discussed above and various other assumptions, we estimate that OPEB expense will approximate $1.0 million in 2010 compared to $3.1 million in 2009. A 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would have a nominal impact on estimated OPEB expense in 2010. A 1.0% increase or decrease in the health care trend rate for each year would increase or decrease the estimated service and interest cost components of OPEB expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2010, respectively. Based upon the actuarial assumptions being used in 2009, we believe we will be required to pay OPEB benefits of $1.4 million in 2010, net of retiree contributions. OPEB expense will decrease in 2010 primarily as the result of actuarial gains recognized in AOCI as of December 31, 2009 resulting from plan amendments and changing assumptions regarding health care trends and other demographic data. Environmental matters. See Business Regulatory and environmental matters in Item 1 and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Affiliate transactions. Corporations that may be deemed to be controlled by or affiliated with Mr. Simmons sometimes engage in (i) intercorporate transactions such as guarantees, management and expense sharing arrangements, shared fee arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships, loans, options, advances of funds on open account, and sales, leases and exchanges of assets, including securities issued by both related and unrelated parties, and (ii) common investment and acquisition strategies, business combinations, reorganizations, recapitalizations, securities repurchases, and purchases and sales (and other acquisitions and dispositions) of subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, which transactions have involved both related and unrelated parties and have included transactions which resulted in the acquisition by one related party of a publicly held minority equity interest in another related party. We continuously consider, review and evaluate such transactions, and we understand that Contran and related entities consider, review and evaluate such transactions. Depending upon the business, tax and other objectives then relevant, it is possible that we might be a party to one or more such transactions in the future. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of certain related party transactions that we were a party to during 2007, 2008 and 2009. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest rates. If we utilize our borrowing capacity in the future, we would be exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to indebtedness. We typically do not enter into interest rate swaps or other types of contracts in order to manage our interest rate market risk. We had no outstanding bank indebtedness at December 31, 2008 and 2009. Our borrowings accrue interest at variable rates, generally related to spreads over bank prime rates and LIBOR. Because our bank indebtedness reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such debt is believed to approximate fair value. Foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. We do not enter into currency forward contracts to manage our foreign exchange market risk associated with receivables, payables or indebtedness denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the particular entity. See Results of Operations European operations in Item 7 MD&A for further discussion. Commodity prices. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in commodity prices as a result of our long term purchase and supply agreements with certain suppliers and customers. These agreements, which offer various fixed or formula determined pricing arrangements, effectively obligate us to bear (i) the risk of increased raw material and other costs to us that cannot be passed on to our customers through increased titanium product prices (in whole or in part) or (ii) the risk of decreasing raw material costs to our suppliers that are not passed on to us in the form of lower raw material prices. However, our ability to offset increased material costs with higher selling prices increased in the last several years, as many of our LTAs have either expired or have been renegotiated with price adjustments that take into account raw material, labor and energy cost fluctuations. We do not engage in commodity hedging programs. Raw materials. We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in availability and prices for our critical raw materials. From time to time we enter into long term supply agreements for certain critical raw materials, including sponge, rutile and certain alloys, and we have long term agreements in place for the majority of our expected requirements for titanium sponge through 2025. We also have closed loop arrangements with certain of our customers for the purchase of titanium scrap, which provide certainty of supply and price stability. We do not generally enter into long term supply agreements for all of our other critical raw material requirements. We believe the risk of unavailability of our critical raw materials is low considering our existing LTAs with our raw material suppliers and other sources available to us, and the risk of price variability for our critical raw materials will be somewhat mitigated by our ability to increase the prices charged to our customers as noted above. Securities prices. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, we held certain marketable securities that are exposed to market risk due to changes in prices of the securities. The aggregate market value of these equity securities was $16.4 million at December 31, 2008 and $20.6 million at December 31, 2009. The potential change in the aggregate market value of these securities, assuming a 10% change in prices, would have been $1.6 million at December 31, 2008 and $2.1 million at December 31, 2009. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest bearing notes receivable. We held a note receivable from CompX with a principal amount of $42.7 million at December 31, 2008 and $42.5 million at December 31, 2009. Our note receivable accrues interest at variable rates, related to the spread over LIBOR. Because our note receivable reprices with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable is believed to approximate fair value. See Notes 11 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 17 We held two notes receivable from Contran with a combined principal amount of $50.5 million at December 31, 2009. Our notes receivable accrue interest at variable rates, related to the prime rate, or in some cases, a specified spread under the prime rate. Because interest rates of our notes receivable reprice with changes in market interest rates, the carrying amount of such note receivable are believed to approximate fair value. See Notes 11 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
