FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20050211162726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On February 7, 2005 Ronald C. Foster submitted his resignation from his position as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") effective February 11, 2005. Effective as of today's date, Mr. David Vellequette, Vice President, Operations Controller of the Company, has been appointed as interim senior financial officer of the Company.
Mr. Vellequette, age 48, joined the Company in July 2004 as Vice President, Operations Controller. Before joining the Company Mr. Vellequette served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Service Operations of Openwave Systems, Inc., from April 2002 until July 2004. Mr. Vellequette held various finance positions with Cisco Systems, Inc., from 1996 until April 2002, culminating in his service as Vice President of Finance supporting the Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to Cisco, Mr. Vellequette was Controller for StrataCom Corporation from 1992 until its acquisition by Cisco in 1996. From 1984 until 1992 Mr. Vellequette served as Controller for Altera Corporation. Mr. Vellequette began his career with Ernst & Young, LLP. Mr. Vellequette holds a B.S. degree in accounting from the University of California, Berkeley.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing such resignation and appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 11, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
- JDS Uniphase Corporation (Nasdaq: JDSU and TSX: JDU), today announced that Ronald C. Foster will step down as executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective immediately. Mr. Foster will remain with the Company until March 1, 2005 to ensure an orderly transition of responsibilities. The Company has commenced an aggressive nationwide search for Mr. Foster's replacement.
SAN JOSE, Calif., February 11, 2005
"All of us at JDS Uniphase appreciate Ron's contributions and service," said Chief Executive Officer Kevin Kennedy. "As we conduct a search for our new Chief Financial Officer, we remain steadfastly focused on our program to drive costs out of our business model."
The Company is pleased to announce that David Vellequette, Vice President and Operations Controller, will immediately assume the role of interim senior financial officer.
"Both I and the Board of Directors expect the transition to progress smoothly and deliberately," Mr. Kennedy added.
About JDS Uniphase
JDS Uniphase Corporation designs and manufactures products for markets where its core optics technologies provide innovative solutions for industrial, commercial and consumer applications. The Company offers components, modules and subsystems for data communications, telecommunications and cable television, display, product and document authentication, medical/environmental instrumentation, decorative, aerospace and defense applications. More information is available at www.jdsu.com.


