FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20050118172902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 18, 2005 JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary revenue and earnings results for its second quarter ended December 31, 2004 of its fiscal year 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(c) Exhibits.
The exhibit listed below is being furnished with this Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 18, 2005
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
- JDS Uniphase Corporation (Nasdaq: JDSU and TSX: JDU), today announced preliminary revenue and non-GAAP earnings results for its second quarter ended December 31, 2004.
SAN JOSE, Calif., January 18, 2005
Based on the Company's preliminary financial results, revenue for the second quarter is expected to be approximately $180 million, which is at the lower end of the previously issued guidance of flat to down 8%, compared to revenue of $194.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.
Non-GAAP loss per share is expected to be $0.02, which compares to previous guidance of a loss of $0.01. Lower than anticipated non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP EBITDA are expected to result principally from:
While detailed financial results are not yet available, the Company noted that its Communications business delivered another solid revenue performance in the second quarter.
Second Quarter Earnings Announcement and Conference Call
JDS Uniphase will announce final results for its second quarter of fiscal 2005 on Wednesday, January 26, 2005, after the market closes. The company will host a conference call at 2:00pm, Pacific Time, on Wednesday, January 26, 2005 to discuss the results in detail. To access the live webcast, please visit JDS Uniphase's website at www.jdsu.com/investor at least 30 minutes before the scheduled start time to download any necessary audio or plug-in software. A replay of the webcast will be available from 6:00pm, Pacific Time, on Wednesday, January 26, 2005, and will be available until Wednesday, February 9, 2005.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company provides non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful information regarding its operational performance and to enhance its investors' overall understanding of its core current financial performance and its prospects for the future. The Company believes that its investors benefit from seeing its results "through the eyes" of management. Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as are disclosed in this release. This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
 
Non-GAAP information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. JDS Uniphase's non-GAAP information excludes items, such as restructuring and realignment charges, reductions in long-lived assets, reductions in the fair value of investments, gains on sales of investments, losses on equity method investments and amortization, that may have a material effect on the Company's earnings and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management monitors these excluded items to ensure that expenses are in line with management's expectations and that the Company's GAAP results are correctly stated, but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the Company.
A detailed reconciliation of GAAP results to non-GAAP results will be provided with our second quarter financial results which we expect to release on Wednesday, 26 January, 2005, after the market closes.
About JDS Uniphase
JDS Uniphase Corporation designs and manufactures products for markets where its core optics technologies provide innovative solutions for industrial, commercial and consumer applications. The Company offers components, modules and subsystems for data communications, telecommunications and cable television, display, product and document authentication, medical/environmental instrumentation, decorative, aerospace and defense applications. More information is available at www.jdsu.com.


