FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20050823172240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On August 17, 2005, the Board of Directors ("Board") of JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") set annual base salaries for each of Mr. Michael Ricci, Senior Vice President, Components and Modules, Ms. Debora Shoquist, Senior Vice President, Operations, and Dr. Mark Sobey, Senior Vice President, Sales, each of whom was a named executive officer of the Company for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2005 ("FY 2005"), at $275,000, $285,000, and $265,000, respectively.
 
At the same meeting, the Board approved and established the performance targets applicable to the Company's FY2006 Annual Incentive Plan (the "2006 AIP"), in which each of the named executive officers and other executive officers of the Company for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2006 ("FY 2006") are participants. Under the 2006 AIP, and subject to employment on the 2006 AIP payment date and such other administrative terms and conditions as are specified in the 2006 AIP, eligible Company employees may receive a cash incentive payment based upon the Company's achievement of certain financial performance targets and the employee's grade within the Company's compensation system. The business criteria selected by the Board for use under the 2006 AIP are Company revenue and EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) metrics, and for individuals working primarily within a particular reporting segment of the Company, revenue and EBITDA metrics for the reporting segment. Each individual participant also has individual performance metrics. The annualized target bonus as a percentage of base salary that the Company's named executive officers may receive if all of the Company performance targets (and for Mr. Ricci, relevant reporting segment performance targets) are achieved, and they otherwise satisfy the requirements of the 2006 AIP, are 100% for Kevin Kennedy, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, 75% for David Vellequette, Chief Financial Officer, 50% for Mr. Ricci and Ms. Shoquist, and 25% for Dr. Sobey. 1% of base salary may be paid to individual participants, including the Company's named executive officers, in the event of the achievement of certain customer satisfaction improvement metrics. Achievement of these customer satisfaction metrics shall be determined by the Chief Executive Officer for all participants in the 2006 AIP except himself, and by the Board for the CEO. These annualized performance target bonuses for FY2006 reflect the same percentage of annual base salary as the annual performance target bonuses established for the preceding fiscal year by the Board of Directors except for Mr. Vellequette, whose target was revised concurrent with his promotion to Chief Financial Officer as previously reported by the Company. The actual bonus payments may be either less than or greater than these target bonus amounts depending upon whether and the extent to which the various performance metrics are achieved in FY 2006. Other executive officers of the Company are entitled to participate in the 2006 AIP on a similar basis.
 
The Board also adopted the Company's FY2006 Sales Incentive Plan ("2006 SIP"), pursuant to which certain sales employees are eligible to earn cash incentive payments based upon achievement of certain performance targets, including targets based upon revenue generation, margin improvement and customer order generation. The only Company named executive officer eligible to participate in the 2006 SIP is Dr. Sobey, who is eligible to receive a target cash incentive award of 25% of Dr. Sobey's base salary. The actual cash incentive payment to Dr. Sobey may be either less than or greater than this target bonus amounts depending upon whether and the extent to which the various performance targets are achieved in FY 2006.
The Board also approved the 2006 Executive Retention Program the ("2006 ERP"), under which each of the named executive officers and other executive officers of the Company for FY 2006 are participants, excluding Mr. Kennedy. Eligibility for cash incentive payments under the terms of the 2006 ERP are subject to achievement of certain Company EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) targets, continued employment in good standing and individual performance rating metrics to be determined by the Company's Chief Executive Officer. In each case eligibility for a cash incentive payment shall be determined following the close of a Company fiscal year. Following completion of each of the Company's 2006 and 2007 fiscal years, Mr. Vellequette, Mr. Ricci, Ms. Shoquist and Dr. Sobey will be eligible to receive incentive cash payments of $300,000, $275,000, $275,000, and $150,000, respectively. In addition, Mr. Ricci, and Ms. Shoquist shall each be eligible to receive incentive cash payments following the completion of each of the Company's 2008 and 2009 fiscal years in the amount of $175,000, and Dr. Sobey shall be eligible to receive an incentive cash payment following the completion of the Company's 2008 fiscal year in the amount of $150,000. Any payments under the 2006 AIP and the 2006 SIP, and any payments to executive officers including named executive officers under similar plans that may be approved by the Board for the Company's 2007, 2008 and 2009 fiscal years shall reduce any cash incentive payments which may become payable to eligible named executive officers and other executive officers for each such applicable fiscal years pursuant to the Company's 2006 ERP.
 
The Board also adopted the 2005 Acquisition Equity Incentive Plan ("Stock Plan"). The individuals who are intended to be primary recipients of an award under the Stock Plan are employees of a business acquired by the Company as an inducement for them to accept and continue employment with the Company at the time of the completion of such acquisition. The maximum number of shares that may be granted under the Stock Plan is 16,000,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock. Shares may be awarded by the Compensation Committee of the Board or its authorized delegee in the form of options, restricted stock, performance units or other awards permitted under the terms of the Stock Plan. Any options granted under the Stock Plan shall be non-qualified stock options for purposes of United States federal income tax law, shall have an exercise price of no less than 100% of the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on the date of grant and a maximum term of no more than 8 years from the date of grant. All of the shares approved for issuance under the Stock Plan have been specified by the Board to be used as inducement awards in conjunction with the Company's acquisition of Acterna, Inc. The Stock Plan is not being submitted to the stockholders of the Company for approval since the Stock Plan complies with the requirements for exemption from such submission as set forth in the Marketplace Rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market. For additional information regarding the Stock Plan, please refer to the copy of the Stock Plan attached as an exhibit to this filing.
 
Additionally, the Board approved a customer satisfaction improvement incentive bonus to all eligible employees equal to 1% of each such eligible employee's base salary. Each of the Company's named executive officers and other executive officers employed by the Company as of the end of the Company's 2005 fiscal year is entitled to receive this bonus, other than Mr. Vellequette.
 
Finally, pursuant to the terms of Mr. Kennedy's Employment Agreement dated August 20, 2003 and the CEO Bonus Plan contained therein, the Board reviewed the performance of Mr. Kennedy against previously approved financial (including revenue, EBITDA, gross margin and operating expense targets), leadership and leadership development, and strategic objectives and approved the payment to Mr. Kennedy of a bonus of $400,000 with respect to FY 2005. This bonus includes the customer satisfaction improvement bonus discussed in the preceding paragraph.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
1. . The purpose of this Plan is to provide incentives to attract eligible persons whose potential contributions are important to the success of the Company by offering them an opportunity to participate in the Company's future performance.
Purpose of the Plan
 
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
 
(a) "" means any Committee appointed by the Board in accordance with Applicable Law to administer the Plan.
Administrator
 
(b) "" and "" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Affiliate
Associate
 
(c) "" means the legal requirements relating to the Plan and the Awards under applicable provisions of federal securities laws, state corporate and securities laws, the Code, the rules of any applicable stock exchange or national market system, and the rules of any non-U.S. jurisdiction applicable to Awards granted to residents therein.
Applicable Laws
 
(d) "" means that pursuant to a Corporate Transaction either (i) the Award is expressly affirmed by the Company or (ii) the contractual obligations represented by the Award are expressly assumed (and not simply by operation of law) by the successor entity or its Parent in connection with the Corporate Transaction with appropriate adjustments to the number and type of securities of the successor entity or its Parent subject to the Award and the exercise or purchase price thereof which preserves the compensation element of the Award existing at the time of the Corporate Transaction as determined in accordance with the instruments evidencing the agreement to assume the Award.
Assumed
 
(e) "" means the grant of an Option, SAR, Dividend Equivalent Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Unit, or other right or benefit under the Plan.
Award
 
(f) "" means the written agreement evidencing the grant of an Award executed by the Company and the Grantee, including any amendments thereto.
Award Agreement
 
(g) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
(h) "" means, with respect to the termination by the Company or a Related Entity of the Grantee's Continuous Active Service, that such termination is for "Cause" as such term is expressly defined in a then-effective written agreement between the Grantee and the Company or such Related Entity, or in the absence of such then-effective written agreement and definition, is based on, in the determination of the Administrator, the Grantee's: (i) performance of any act or failure to perform any act in bad faith and to the detriment of the Company or a Related Entity; (ii) dishonesty, intentional misconduct, material violation of any applicable Company or Related Entity policy, or material breach of any agreement with the Company or a Related Entity; or (iii) commission of a crime involving dishonesty, breach of trust, or physical or emotional harm to any person.
Cause
 
(i) "" means a change in ownership or control of the Company effected through either of the following transactions:
Change in Control
 
(i) the direct or indirect acquisition by any person or related group of persons (other than an acquisition from or by the Company or by a Company-sponsored employee benefit plan or by a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company's stockholders which a majority of the Continuing Directors who are not Affiliates or Associates of the offeror do not recommend such stockholders accept, or
 
(ii) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six (36) months or less such that a majority of the Board members (rounded up to the next whole number) ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who are Continuing Directors.
 
(j) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(k) "" means any committee composed of members of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
 
(l) "" means the common stock of the Company.
Common Stock
 
(m) "" means JDS Uniphase Corporationa Delaware corporation.
Company
,
 
(n) "" means any person (other than an Employee or a Director, solely with respect to rendering services in such person's capacity as a Director) who is engaged by the Company or any Related Entity to render consulting or advisory services to the Company or such Related Entity.
Consultant
 
(o) "" means members of the Board who either (i) have been Board members continuously for a period of at least thirty-six (36) months or (ii) have been Board members for less than thirty-six (36) months and were elected or nominated for election as Board members by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (i) who were still in office at the time such election or nomination was approved by the Board.
Continuing Directors
 
(p) "" means that the provision of services to the Company or a Related Entity in any capacity of Employee, Director or Consultant is not interrupted or terminated. In jurisdictions requiring notice in advance of an effective termination as an Employee, Director or Consultant, Continuous Active Service shall be deemed terminated upon the actual cessation of providing services to the Company or a Related Entity notwithstanding any required notice period that must be fulfilled before a termination as an Employee, Director or Consultant can be effective under Applicable Laws. Continuous Active
Continuous Active Service
 
Service shall not be considered interrupted in the case of (i) any approved leave of absence, (ii) transfers among the Company, any Related Entity, or any successor, in any capacity of Employee, Director or Consultant, or (iii) any change in status as long as the individual remains in the service of the Company or a Related Entity in any capacity of Employee, Director or Consultant (except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement). An approved leave of absence shall include sick leave, military leave, or any other authorized personal leave.
 
(q) "" means any of the following transactions:
Corporate Transaction
 
(i) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving entity, except for a transaction the principal purpose of which is to change the state in which the Company is incorporated;
 
(ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company;
 
(iii) the complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
 
(iv) any reverse merger or series of related transactions culminating in a reverse merger (including, but not limited to, a tender offer followed by a reverse merger) in which the Company is the surviving entity but in which securities possessing more than forty percent (40%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities are transferred to a person or persons different from those who held such securities immediately prior to such merger or the initial transaction culminating in such merger but excluding any such transaction or series of related transactions that the Administrator determines shall not be a Corporate Transaction; or
 
(v) acquisition in a single or series of related transactions by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or by a Company-sponsored employee benefit plan) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities but excluding any such transaction or series of related transactions that the Administrator determines shall not be a Corporate Transaction.
 
(r) "" means an Employee who is a "covered employee" under Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
Covered Employee
 
(s) "" means a member of the Board or the board of directors of any Related Entity.
Director
 
(t) "" means as defined under the long-term disability policy of the Company or the Related Entity to which the Grantee provides services regardless of whether the Grantee is covered by such policy. If the Company or the Related Entity to which the Grantee provides service does not have a long-term disability plan in place, "Disability" means that a Grantee is unable to carry out the responsibilities and functions of the position held by the Grantee by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment for a period of not less than ninety (90) consecutive days. A Grantee will not be considered to have incurred a Disability unless he or she furnishes proof of such impairment sufficient to satisfy the Administrator in its discretion.
Disability
 
(u) "" means a right entitling the Grantee to compensation measured by dividends paid with respect to Common Stock.
Dividend Equivalent Right
 
(v) "" means any person, including an Officer or Director, who is in the employ of the Company or any Related Entity, subject to the control and direction of the Company or any Related Entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance. The payment of a director's fee by the Company or a Related Entity shall not be sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company.
Employee
 
(w) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
(x) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
 
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation The Nasdaq National Market or The Nasdaq SmallCap Market of The Nasdaq Stock Market, its Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange or system on the date of determination (or, if no closing sales price or closing bid was reported on that date, as applicable, on the last trading date such closing sales price or closing bid was reported), as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;
 
(ii) If the Common Stock is regularly quoted on an automated quotation system (including the OTC Bulletin Board) or by a recognized securities dealer, but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high bid and low asked prices for the Common Stock on the date of determination (or, if no such prices were reported on that date, on the last date such prices were reported), as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable; or
 
(iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock of the type described in (i) and (ii), above, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined by the Administrator in good faith.
 
(y) "" means an Employee, who receives an Award under the Plan.
Grantee
 
(z) "" means any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the Grantee's household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons (or the Grantee) have more than fifty percent (50%) of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the Grantee) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Grantee) own more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting interests.
Immediate Family
 
(aa) "" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Non-Qualified Stock Option
 
(bb) "" means a person who is an officer of the Company or a Related Entity within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Officer
 
(cc) "" means an option to purchase Shares pursuant to an Award Agreement granted under the Plan.
Option
 
(dd) "" means a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
 
(ee) "" means compensation qualifying as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Performance-Based Compensation
 
(ff) "" means an Award which may be earned in whole or in part based upon attainment of performance criteria established by the Administrator and which may be settled for cash, Shares or other securities or a combination of cash, Shares or other securities as established by the Administrator.
Performance Units
 
(gg) "" means this 2005 Acquisition Equity Incentive Plan.
Plan
 
(hh) "" means any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company and any business, corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Company or a Parent or a Subsidiary of the Company holds a substantial ownership interest, directly or indirectly.
Related Entity
 
(ii) "" means that pursuant to a Corporate Transaction the Award is replaced with a comparable stock award or a cash incentive program of the Company, the successor entity (if applicable) or Parent of either of them which preserves the compensation element of such Award existing at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same (or a more favorable) vesting schedule applicable to such Award. The determination of Award comparability shall be made by the Administrator and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Replaced
 
(jj) "" means Shares issued under the Plan to the Grantee for such consideration, if any, and subject to such restrictions on transfer, rights of first refusal, repurchase provisions, forfeiture provisions, and other terms and conditions as established by the Administrator.
Restricted Stock
 
(kk) "" means an interest in the Company represented by a Share, which is subject to such restrictions on transfer, rights of first refusal, repurchase provisions, forfeiture provisions, and other terms and conditions as established by the Administrator.
Restricted Stock Unit
 
(ll) "" means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto.
Rule 16b-3
 
(mm) "" means a stock appreciation right entitling the Grantee to Shares, as established by the Administrator, measured by appreciation in the value of Common Stock.
SAR
 
(nn) "" means a share of the Common Stock.
Share
 
(oo) "" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
 
3. .
Stock Subject to the Plan
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 10 below, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued pursuant to all Awards is 16,000,000 Shares. The Shares to be issued pursuant to Awards may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.
 
(b) Any Shares covered by an Award (or portion of an Award) which is forfeited, canceled or expires (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) shall be deemed not to have been issued for purposes of determining the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan. Shares that actually have been issued under the Plan pursuant to an Award shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future issuance under the Plan, except that if unvested Shares are forfeited, or repurchased by the Company at the lower of their original purchase price or their Fair Market Value at the time of repurchase, such Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan.
 
4. .
Administration of the Plan
 
(a) .
Plan Administrator
 
(i) . With respect to grants of Awards who are also Officers or Directors of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee designated by the Board, which Committee shall be constituted in such a manner as to satisfy the Applicable Laws and to permit such grants and related transactions under the Plan to be exempt from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act in accordance with Rule 16b-3. Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board.
Administration with Respect to Directors and Officers
 
(ii) . With respect to grants of Awards to Employees who are neither Directors nor Officers of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee designated by the Board, which Committee shall be constituted in such a manner as to satisfy the Applicable Laws. Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. The Board may authorize one or more Officers to grant such Awards and may limit such authority as the Board determines from time to time.
Administration With Respect to Consultants and Other Employees
 
(iii) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, grants of Awards to any Covered Employee intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be made only by a Committee (or subcommittee of a Committee) which is comprised solely of two or more Directors eligible to serve on a committee making Awards qualifying as Performance-Based Compensation. In the case of such Awards granted to Covered Employees, references to the "Administrator" or to a "Committee" shall be deemed to be references to such Committee or subcommittee.
Administration With Respect to Covered Employees
 
(iv) . In the event an Award is granted in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this subsection (a), such Award shall be presumptively valid as of its grant date to the extent permitted by the Applicable Laws.
Administration Errors
 
(b) . Subject to Applicable Laws and the provisions of the Plan (including any other powers given to the Administrator hereunder), and except as otherwise provided by the Board, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
 
(i) to select the Employees, to whom Awards may be granted from time to time hereunder;
 
(ii) to determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder;
 
(iii) to determine the number of Shares or the amount of other consideration to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
 
(iv) to approve forms of Award Agreements for use under the Plan;
 
(v) to determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder;
 
(vi) to amend the terms of any outstanding Award granted under the Plan, provided that (A) any amendment that would adversely affect the Grantee's rights under an outstanding Award shall not be made without the Grantee's written consent, (B) the reduction of the exercise price of any Option awarded under the Plan shall be subject to stockholder approval and (C) canceling an Option at a time when its exercise price exceeds the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares, in exchange for another Award shall be subject to stockholder approval, unless the cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with a Corporate Transaction;
 
(vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards, including without limitation, any notice of award or Award Agreement, granted pursuant to the Plan;
 
(viii) to establish additional terms, conditions, rules or procedures to accommodate the rules or laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions and to afford Grantees favorable treatment under such rules or laws; provided, however, that no Award shall be granted under any such additional terms, conditions, rules or procedures with terms or conditions which are inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan; and
 
(ix) to take such other action, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Administrator deems appropriate.
 
(c) . In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or as Officers or Employees of the Company or a Related Entity, members of the Board and any Officers or Employees of the Company or a Related Entity to whom authority to act for the Board, the Administrator or the Company is delegated shall be defended and indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by law on an after-tax basis against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any Award granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct; provided, however, that within thirty (30) days after the institution of such claim, investigation, action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at the Company's expense to handle and defend the same.
Indemnification
 
5. . Awards only may be granted to Employees. An Employee who has been granted an Award may, if otherwise eligible, be granted additional Awards. Awards may be granted to such Employees who are residing in non-U.S. jurisdictions as the Administrator may determine from time to time.
Eligibility
 
6. .
Terms and Conditions of Awards
 
(a) . The Administrator is authorized under the Plan to award any type of arrangement to an Employee that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan and that by its terms involves or might involve the issuance of (i) Shares, (ii) cash or (iii) an Option or similar right with a fixed or variable price related to the Fair Market Value of the Shares and with an exercise or conversion privilege related to the passage of time, the occurrence of one or more events, or the satisfaction of performance criteria or other conditions. Such awards include, without limitation, Options, Restricted Stock, Performance Units and an Award may consist of one such security or benefit, or two (2) or more of them in any combination or alternative.
Type of Awards
 
(b) . Each Award shall be designated in the Award Agreement. In the case of an Option, the Option shall be designated as a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
Designation of Award
 
(c) . Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Administrator shall determine the provisions, terms, and conditions of each Award including, but not limited to, the Award vesting schedule, repurchase provisions, rights of first refusal, forfeiture provisions, form of payment (cash, Shares, or other consideration) upon settlement of the Award, payment contingencies, and satisfaction of any performance criteria. The performance criteria established by the Administrator may be based on any one of, or combination of, the following: (i) increase in share price, (ii) earnings per share, (iii) total stockholder return, (iv) operating margin, (v) gross margin, (vi) return on equity, (vii) return on assets, (viii) return on investment, (ix)
Conditions of Award
 
operating income, (x) net operating income, (xi) pre-tax profit, (xii) cash flow, (xiii) revenue, (xiv) expenses, (xv) earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation, (xvi) economic value added, (xvii) market share, (xviii) personal management objectives, and (xix) other measures of performance selected by the Administrator. Partial achievement of the specified criteria may result in a payment or vesting corresponding to the degree of achievement as specified in the Award Agreement.
 
(d) . The Administrator may establish one or more programs under the Plan to permit selected Grantees the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of consideration upon exercise of an Award, satisfaction of performance criteria, or other event that absent the election would entitle the Grantee to payment or receipt of Shares or other consideration under an Award. The Administrator may establish the election procedures, the timing of such elections, the mechanisms for payments of, and accrual of interest or other earnings, if any, on amounts, Shares or other consideration so deferred, and such other terms, conditions, rules and procedures that the Administrator deems advisable for the administration of any such deferral program.
Deferral of Award Payment
 
(e) . The Administrator may establish one or more separate programs under the Plan for the purpose of issuing particular forms of Awards to one or more classes of Grantees on such terms and conditions as determined by the Administrator from time to time.
Separate Programs
 
(f) .The maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to any Grantee in any fiscal year of the Company shall be five million (5,000,000) Shares. The foregoing limitation shall be adjusted proportionately in connection with any change in the Company's capitalization pursuant to Section 10, below. To the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code or the regulations thereunder, in applying the foregoing limitation with respect to a Grantee, if any Awards are canceled, the canceled Awards shall continue to count against the maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to the Grantee. For this purpose, the repricing of an Option (or in the case of a SAR, the base amount on which the stock appreciation is calculated is reduced to reflect a reduction in the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock) shall be treated as the cancellation of the existing Option or SAR and the grant of a new Option or SAR. If the vesting or receipt of Shares under the Award is deferred to a later date, any amount (whether denominated in Shares or cash) paid in addition to the original number of Shares subject to the Award will not be treated as an increase in the number of Shares subject to the Award if the additional amount is based either on a reasonable rate of interest or on one or more predetermined actual investments such that the amount payable by the Company at the later date will be based on the actual rate of return of a specific investment (including any decrease as well as any increase in the value of an investment).
Individual Limitations on Awards
 
(g) . The Award Agreement may, but need not, include a provision whereby the Grantee may elect at any time while an Employee, Director or Consultant to exercise any part or all of the Award prior to full vesting of the Award. Any unvested Shares received pursuant to such exercise may be subject to a repurchase right in favor of the Company or a Related Entity or to any other restriction the Administrator determines to be appropriate.
Early Exercise
 
(h) . The term of each Award shall be the term stated in the Award Agreement, provided, however, that the term of an Award shall be no more than eight (8) years from the date of grant thereof.
Term of Award
 
(i) . Awards shall be transferable by will and by the laws of descent and distribution, and during the lifetime of the Grantee, by gift or pursuant to a domestic relations order to members of the Grantee's Immediate Family to the extent and in the manner determined by the Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee may designate a beneficiary of the Grantee's Award in the event of the Grantee's death on a beneficiary designation form provided by the Administrator.
Transferability of Awards
 
(j) . The date of grant of an Award shall for all purposes be the date on which the Administrator makes the determination to grant such Award, or such later date as is determined by the Administrator.
Time of Granting Awards
 
7. .
Award Exercise or Purchase Price, Consideration and Taxes
 
(a) . The exercise or purchase price, if any, for an Award shall be as follows:
Exercise or Purchase Price
 
(i) In the case of a Non-Qualified Stock Option, the per Share exercise price shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(ii) In the case of Awards intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the exercise or purchase price, if any, shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(iii) In the case of other Awards, such price as is determined by the Administrator.
 
(b) . Subject to Applicable Laws, the consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise or purchase of an Award including the method of payment, shall be determined by the Administrator. In addition to any other types of consideration the Administrator may determine, the Administrator is authorized to accept as consideration for Shares issued under the Plan the following, provided that the portion of the consideration equal to the par value of the Shares must be paid in cash or other legal consideration permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law:
Consideration
 
(i) cash;
 
(ii) check;
 
(iii) surrender of Shares or delivery of a properly executed form of attestation of ownership of Shares as the Administrator may require (including withholding of Shares otherwise deliverable upon exercise of the Award) which have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender or attestation equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Award shall be exercised, provided, however, that Shares acquired under the Plan or any other equity compensation plan or agreement of the Company must have been held by the Grantee for a period of more than six (6) months;
 
(iv) with respect to Options, payment through a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which the Grantee (A) shall provide written instructions to a Company designated brokerage firm to effect the immediate sale of some or all of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company sufficient funds to cover the aggregate exercise price payable for the purchased Shares and (B) shall provide written directives to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction; or
 
(v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment.
 
(c) . No Shares shall be delivered under the Plan to any Grantee or other person until such Grantee or other person has made arrangements acceptable to the Administrator for the satisfaction of any non-U.S., federal, state, or local income and employment tax withholding obligations, including, without limitation, obligations incident to the receipt of Shares or the disqualifying disposition of Shares received on exercise of an Incentive Stock Option. Upon exercise of an Award the Company shall withhold or collect from Grantee an amount sufficient to satisfy such tax obligations.
Taxes
 
8. .
Exercise of Award
 
(a) .
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder
 
(i) Any Award granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator under the terms of the Plan and specified in the Award Agreement.
 
(ii) An Award shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Award by the person entitled to exercise the Award and full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Award is exercised, including, to the extent selected, use of the broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure to pay the purchase price as provided in Section 7(b)(iv).
 
(b) .
Exercise of Award Following Termination of Continuous Active Service
 
(i) An Award may not be exercised after the termination date of such Award set forth in the Award Agreement and may be exercised following the termination of a Grantee's Continuous Active Service only to the extent provided in the Award Agreement.
 
(ii) Where the Award Agreement permits a Grantee to exercise an Award following the termination of the Grantee's Continuous Active Service for a specified period, the Award shall terminate to the extent not exercised on the last day of the specified period or the last day of the original term of the Award, whichever occurs first.
 
9. .
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
(a) Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all Applicable Laws, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
 
(b) As a condition to the exercise of an Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any Applicable Laws.
 
10. . Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Award, and the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan, the exercise or purchase price of each such outstanding Award, the maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to any Grantee in any fiscal year of the Company, as well as any other terms that the Administrator determines require adjustment shall be proportionately adjusted for (i) any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Shares, or similar transaction affecting the Shares, (ii) any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, or (iii) as the Administrator may determine in its discretion, any other transaction with respect to Common Stock including a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, separation (including a spin-off or other distribution of stock or property), reorganization, liquidation (whether partial or complete) or any similar transaction; provided, however that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Administrator and the Administrator's determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as the Administrator determines, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason hereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Award.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
 
11. .
Corporate Transactions
 
(a) . Effective upon the consummation of a Corporate Transaction, all outstanding Awards under the Plan shall terminate. However, all such Awards shall not terminate to the extent they are Assumed in connection with the Corporate Transaction.
Termination of Award to Extent Not Assumed in Corporate Transaction
 
(b) . Except as provided otherwise in an individual Award Agreement, in the event of a Corporate Transaction, for the portion of each Award that is neither Assumed nor Replaced, such portion of the Award shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable and be released from any repurchase or forfeiture rights (other than repurchase rights exercisable at fair market value) for all of the Shares at the time represented by such portion of the Award, immediately prior to the specified effective date of such Corporate Transaction.
Acceleration of Award Upon Corporate Transaction
 
12. . The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless sooner terminated. Subject to Applicable Laws, Awards may be granted under the Plan upon its becoming effective.
Effective Date and Term of Plan
 
13. .
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
 
(a) The Board may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that no such amendment shall be made without the approval of the Company's stockholders to the extent such approval is required by Applicable Laws, or if such amendment would change any of the provisions of Section 4(b)(vi) or this Section 13(a).
 
(b) No Award may be granted during any suspension of the Plan or after termination of the Plan.
 
(c) No suspension or termination of the Plan (including termination of the Plan under Section 12, above) shall adversely affect any rights under Awards already granted to a Grantee.
 
14. .
Reservation of Shares
 
(a) The Company, during the term of the Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
 
(b) The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
 
15. . The Plan shall not confer upon any Grantee any right with respect to the Grantee's Continuous Active Service, nor shall it interfere in any way with his or her right or the right of the Company or any Related Entity to terminate the Grantee's Continuous Active Service at any time, with or without Cause, and with or without notice. The ability of the Company or any Related Entity to terminate the employment of a Grantee who is employed at will is in no way affected by its determination that the Grantee's Continuous Active Service has been terminated for Cause for the purposes of this Plan.
No Effect on Terms of Employment/Consulting Relationship
 
16. . Except as specifically provided in a retirement or other benefit plan of the Company or a Related Entity, Awards shall not be deemed compensation for purposes of computing benefits or contributions under any retirement plan of the Company or a Related Entity, and shall not affect any benefits under any other benefit plan of any kind or any benefit plan subsequently instituted under which the availability or amount of benefits is related to level of compensation. The Plan is not a "Retirement Plan" or "Welfare Plan" under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
No Effect on Retirement and Other Benefit Plans
 
17. . Grantees shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Company. Any amounts payable to Grantees pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes, including, without limitation, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Neither the Company nor any Related Entity shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special accounts with respect to such obligations. The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder. Any investments or the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Grantee account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship between the Administrator, the Company or any Related Entity and a Grantee, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Grantee or the Grantee's creditors in any assets of the Company or a Related Entity. The Grantees shall have no claim against the Company or any Related Entity for any changes in the value of any assets that may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.
Unfunded Obligation
 


