FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20051006165844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 4.01 Changes in Registrant's Certifying Accountant.
 
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Registrant") approved the dismissal of Ernst & Young LLP ("EY") as the Registrant's independent registered public accounting firm effective as of October 3, 2005. Additionally, the Audit Committee approved the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("PwC") as the Registrant's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006. Prior to the acquisition of Acterna, Inc. ("Acterna") by the Registrant, PwC was the independent auditor for Acterna.
 
The audit reports of EY on the Registrant's financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005 contained no adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. The audit report of EY on management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2005 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion although EY's report with respect to the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting indicates that the Registrant did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2005 because of the effect of the material weaknesses, as detailed below, on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria and contains explanatory paragraphs that describe the material weaknesses consistent with the discussion below.
 
In connection with EY's audits for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005 and through the subsequent interim period ended September 30, 2005 or October 3, 2005, there were no disagreements with EY on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the satisfaction of EY, would have caused EY to make reference to the subject matter of such disagreements in connection with its reports. In addition no reportable events, as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K, occurred during the Registrant's fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005 and through the subsequent interim period ending September 30, 2005 or October 3, 2005, except that, as previously disclosed by the Registrant in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2005, EY advised that the Registrant did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2005 because of the effect of the following material weaknesses identified in management's assessment:
 
 
 
 
 
The subject matter of the material weaknesses described above was discussed with EY by the Registrant's management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Registrant. The Registrant has authorized EY to fully respond to the inquiries of the Registrant's newly appointed independent registered public accounting firm, PwC.
 
The Registrant provided EY with a copy of this Current Report on Form 8-K prior to its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and requested that EY furnish a letter addressed to the SEC stating whether or not EY agrees with the statements noted above. A copy of the letter, dated October 6, 2005, from EY is attached as Exhibit 16.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Registrant appointed PwC as its new independent registered public accounting firm as of October 3, 2005. During the Registrant's two most recent fiscal years and the subsequent interim period through October 3, 2005, neither the Registrant nor anyone on its behalf has consulted with PwC regarding either (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed; or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Registrant's financial statements, and neither a written report was provided to the Registrant nor oral advice was provided by PwC that was an important factor considered by the Registrant in reaching a decision as to any accounting, auditing or financial reporting issue; or (ii) any matter that was the subject of a disagreement, as that term is defined in Item 304 (a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions to Item 304 of Regulation S-K, or a reportable event, as that term is defined in Item 304 (a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:
October 6, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 16.1
 
October 6, 2005
 
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, DC 20549
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have read Item 4.01 of Form 8-K dated October 6, 2005 of JDS Uniphase Corporation and are in agreement with the statements contained in the first sentence of the first paragraph, and the second, third and fourth paragraphs, and the first sentence of the fifth paragraph, including the items listed under the third paragraph, under Item 4.01 on page 2 therein. We have no basis to agree or disagree with other statements of the registrant contained therein.
 
Regarding the registrant's statements concerning the lack of internal controls to prepare financial statements, included in the second and third paragraphs, including the items listed under the third paragraph, under Item 4.01 on page 2 therein, we had considered such matters in determining the nature, timing and extent of procedures performed in our audit of the registrant's fiscal 2005 consolidated financial statements.
 


