FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20050617152514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On June 13, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") appointed David Vellequette to the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately.
 
In connection with his promotion to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") approved new compensation terms for Mr. Vellequette, including an annual salary at the rate of $300,000 per year and eligibility for a 2005 target bonus of up to 75% of his annual salary based upon the achievement of certain goals determined by the Committee. In addition, the Committee granted to Mr. Vellequette a nonqualified stock option in the amount of 500,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock pursuant to the terms set forth in the form of the Company's standard stock option documentation and in accordance with the Company's 2003 Equity Incentive Plan. The option will vest over a four year period and has an exercise price of $1.53 per share. Mr. Vellequette does not have a written employment agreement with the Company.
 
Mr. Vellequette, 49, joined the Company in July 2004 as Vice President, Operations Controller, and in February 2005, Mr. Vellequette was appointed interim senior financial officer of the Company. Before joining the Company Mr. Vellequette served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Service Operations of Openwave Systems, Inc., from April 2002 until July 2004. Mr. Vellequette held various finance positions with Cisco Systems, Inc., from 1996 until April 2002, culminating in his service as Vice President of Finance supporting the Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to Cisco, Mr. Vellequette was Controller for StrataCom Corporation from 1992 until its acquisition by Cisco in 1996. From 1984 until 1992 Mr. Vellequette served as Controller for Altera Corporation. Mr. Vellequette began his career with Ernst & Young, LLP. Mr. Vellequette holds a B.S. degree in accounting from the University of California, Berkeley.
 
A copy of the Company's press release announcing such appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 13, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA, June 13, 2005  JDS Uniphase Corporation (NASDAQ: JDSU; and TSX: JDU) today named David Vellequette to the position of senior vice president and chief financial officer. Mr. Vellequette has been JDS Uniphase's acting senior financial officer since February 2005.
 
"With more than 25 years of finance and operations experience in the technology sector, including eight years working alongside me at both Openwave and Cisco, Dave has demonstrated a relentless focus on cost control and operational performance," said Kevin Kennedy, JDS Uniphase's president and chief executive officer. "Dave has been a key driving force behind the recently announced initiatives to accelerate the company's path to profitability, and I am very pleased to announce his promotion to chief financial officer."
 
After graduating from the University of California, Berkeley in 1978, Mr. Vellequette started his finance career as an auditor with Ernst and Young, where he became a Certified Public Accountant. From 1984 to 1992, Mr. Vellequette was Controller at Altera Systems, where he was responsible for SEC reporting, financial planning and analysis (FP&A), and corporate accounting. Between 1992 and 2002, Mr. Vellequette held increasingly responsible positions at Cisco Systems, first as Controller of StrataCom Corporation (acquired by Cisco in 1996) and including Vice President of Finance supporting the multi-billion dollar service provider line of business. From Cisco, Mr Vellequette moved to Openwave Systems where, as Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Service Operations, he was an important contributor to the company's turnaround. Since joining JDS Uniphase as Vice President and Operations Controller in July 2004, Mr. Vellequette has rebuilt the corporate FP&A function, and spearheaded a series of initiatives intended to reduce operational complexity throughout the corporation.
 
In a related announcement, JDS Uniphase also disclosed today that the position of Corporate Controller has been filled, reporting directly to Mr. Vellequette.
 
About JDS Uniphase
 
JDS Uniphase Corporation designs and manufactures products for markets where its core optics technologies provide innovative solutions for communications, commercial and consumer applications. The Company offers components, modules and subsystems for data communications, telecommunications and cable television, display, security, medical/environmental instrumentation, decorative, aerospace and defense applications. More information is available at .
www.jdsu.com
 
Contacts
 
Media: Jayme Curtis, Public Relations, 408-546-7028 or jayme.curtis@jdsu.com
 
Investors: Jacquie Ross, Investor Relations, 408-546-4445, or investor.relations@jdsu.com


