FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20050429171926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2005 JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") reported its results for its third quarter ended March 31, 2005 of its fiscal year 2005. A copy of the press release, dated as of April 27, 2005, is furnished as to this Current Report and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference. The press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of either Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Exhibit 99.1
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On April 25, 2005, the Company took steps to commit itself to the further consolidation of its manufacturing operations and the transfer of such operations to other Company facilities and to the facilities of its contract manufacturing partners, including Fabrinet. Specifically, the Company has agreed with Fabrinet to divest its bulk optics manufacturing facility located in Fuzhou, China.
The Company expects that this transaction will be completed by the end of the second quarter of the fiscal year 2006, ending December 31, 2005. The Company expects that the divestiture of the Fuzhou facility will reduce headcount by over 500 employees, and together with the steps, previously disclosed on Form 8-K on April 20, 2005, to reduce headcount in the Company's North America locations by approximately 850 employees, is anticipated to reduce existing headcount by more than 1350 employees by the end of the calendar year 2005. These various steps to consolidate and transfer the Company's manufacturing operations are part of the Company's business strategy to achieve profitability and increase corporate agility by reducing cost structure and eliminating non-core products.
Paragraph (c) of Item 2.05 of the Form 8-K General Instructions requires the disclosure of the Company's estimate of the total amount or range of amounts expected to be incurred in connection with disclosed exit or disposal activities. At this time the Company does not expect the restructuring and non-recurring charges associated with the divestiture of the Fuzhou facility and the consolidation and transfer activities previously disclosed on Form 8-K on April 20, 2005 to exceed thirty million dollars (US $30,000,000).
The Company has determined that at the time of this filing, it is unable in good faith to make a determination of the estimates required by paragraphs (b) and (d) of Item 2.05 of the Form 8-K General Instructions. The Company will file an amended report on Form 8-K within four business days of making a determination of the required estimates.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 JDS Uniphase Corporation (NASDAQ: JDSU and TSX: JDU) today reported results for the third quarter ended March 31, 2005.
San Jose, California, April 27, 2005
Net revenue for the third quarter was $166.3 million, and net loss was $38.6 million, or $0.03 per share. This compares to net revenue of $180.5 million, and a net loss of $41.0 million, or $0.03 per share, reported for the second quarter of fiscal 2005, and to net revenue of $161.4 million, and a net loss of $7.3 million, or $0.01 per share, for the third quarter of fiscal 2004.
On a non-GAAP basis, net loss in the third quarter was $23.5 million, or $0.02 per share, as compared to a non-GAAP net loss of $28.6 million, or $0.02 per share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2005, and to a non-GAAP net loss of $6.7 million, or $0.00 per share, for the third quarter of fiscal 2004.
On a non-GAAP EBITDA basis (non-GAAP earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), net loss was $19.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, as compared to a net loss of $25.7 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2005, and to a net loss of $9.7 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2004.
"Quarterly revenue results were at the high end of expectations, while initiatives to streamline our cost structure picked up momentum," said Kevin Kennedy, President and Chief Executive Officer of JDS Uniphase. "The divestiture of our Fuzhou operation in China, announced today, and the North American manufacturing consolidation, announced last week, are two elements of our broader profitability strategy."
Financial Overview  Third Quarter Ended March 31, 2005
 
Business Outlook
The Company provided the following financial guidance. For the fourth fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2005, the Company expects net revenue in the range of $160 to $170 million.
When fully implemented in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the announced manufacturing consolidations and related actions are expected to save at least $20 million a quarter.
Conference Call
The Company will discuss these results and other related matters at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on April 27, 2005 in a live webcast, which will also be archived for replay on the Company's website at . This press release is being furnished as a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and will be available at .
www.jdsu.com/investors
www.sec.gov
About JDS Uniphase
JDS Uniphase Corporation designs and manufactures products for markets where its core optics technologies provide innovative solutions for industrial, commercial and consumer applications. The Company offers components, modules and subsystems for data communications, telecommunications and cable television, display, product and document authentication, medical/environmental instrumentation, decorative, aerospace and defense applications. More information is available at .
www.jdsu.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include: (i) any anticipation or guidance as to the amount of future revenue performance or the timing or amount of expected cost savings; and (ii) the Company's beliefs regarding the purpose, usefulness and efficacy of non-GAAP results and the measures and items the Company includes in the same, as well as any benefits to investors the Company believes its non-GAAP measures provide. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, without limitation, the following: (i) the Company's ability to predict future financial performance continues to be difficult, as among other things, visibility remains limited, we are experiencing significant quarter over quarter fluctuations in product mix, average selling prices continue to decline across our product portfolio, we continue to experience execution challenges which limit our revenue and impair our profitability, and we are experiencing declining, but variable, benefits from certain transient items, such as the release of previously accrued reserves and the use of previously written-off inventory; (ii) the Company's cost improvement efforts may not be successful in achieving their expected benefits (including, among other things, cost structure, gross margin and other profitability improvements), due to, among other things, shifts in product mix, selling price pressures, costs and delays related to product transfers to lower cost manufacturing locations and associated facility closures, costs and delays associated with facility
 
and asset divestitures, and execution concerns; and (iii) ongoing efforts to design and introduce products that meet customers' future needs and to manufacture such products at competitive costs, and with acceptable quality and profitability, may not be successful.
For more information on these and other risks affecting the Company's business, please refer to the "Risk Factors" section included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as in subsequent filings on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are made as of the date hereof and the Company does not assume any obligation to update the reasons why actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Contact Information
The following financial tables are presented in accordance with GAAP, unless otherwise specified.
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company provides non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expense, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA financial measures as supplemental information regarding the Company's operational performance. The Company evaluates Company-wide segment performance using, among other things, the measures disclosed in this release for the purposes of evaluating the Company's historical and prospective financial performance, as well as its performance relative to its competitors. Specifically, management uses these items to further its own understanding of the Company's core operating performance. The Company believes its "core operating performance" represents the Company's performance in the ordinary, ongoing and customary course of its operations. Accordingly, management excludes from "core operating performance" those items, such as those relating to restructuring, investing and non-cash activities, that management does not believe are reflective of such ordinary, ongoing and customary course activities.
The Company believes that providing this information to its investors, in addition to the GAAP presentation, allows investors to see Company results "through the eyes" of management. The Company further believes that providing this information allows Company investors to both better understand the Company's financial performance and, importantly, to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
The non-GAAP adjustments described in this release have historically been excluded by the Company from its non-GAAP measures. The non-GAAP adjustments, and the basis for excluding them, are outlined below:
Restructuring Activities
Cost of goods sold, costs of research and development and costs of selling, general and administrative related to restructuring events: The Company has incurred periodic expenses, included in its GAAP presentation of gross margin and operating expenses primarily due to additional depreciation from changes in estimated useful life and the write-down of certain property and equipment that has been identified for disposal but remained in use until the date of disposal, workforce related charges such as retention bonuses and employee relocation costs related to a formal restructuring plan, building costs for facilities not required for ongoing operations, and costs related to the relocation of certain facilities and equipment from buildings which the Company has disposed of or plans to dispose. The Company excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes that these items do not reflect expected future gross profits or operating expenses nor does the Company believe that they provide a meaningful evaluation of current versus past core operational performance.
Restructuring expense primarily due to severance and lease costs: The Company has incurred restructuring expenses, included in its GAAP presentation of operating expense, primarily due to workforce related charges such as payments for severance and benefits and estimated costs of exiting and terminating facility lease commitments related to a formal restructuring plan. The Company excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP operating expense, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes that these items do not reflect expected future operating expenses nor does the Company believe that they provide a meaningful evaluation of current versus past core operational performance.
Investment Activities
Gain or loss on sale of available for-sale investments and reduction in the fair value of investments: The Company has sold investments or adjusted the value of investments from time to time based on market conditions. The Company's activities in this respect are included in the Company's GAAP presentation of net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share. The Company's core business is not making financial investments in third parties, and such investments do not constitute a material portion of the Company's assets. Moreover, the amount and timing of gains and losses and adjustments to the value of investments are unpredictable. Consequently, the Company believes that gains or losses on these sales and adjustments to the value of investments are not related to the ongoing core business and operating performance of the Company. The Company excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes the GAAP measure is not indicative of the Company's core operating performance.
 
Gain or loss on equity method investments: The Company records gains or losses on its equity investments based on our pro-rata share of gains or the net losses of the investment. The Company's activities in this respect are included in the Company's GAAP presentation of net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share. The Company's core business is not making financial investments in third parties, and such investments do not constitute a material portion of the Company's assets. Moreover, the timing and magnitude of gains or losses are unpredictable, as they are inherently based on the performance of the third party subject of a particular investment. Gains and losses in equity investments are unpredictable, and are primarily dependent on the financial performance of the company in which we have our investment. The Company excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes the GAAP measure is not indicative of its core operating performance.
Non-Cash Activities
Amortization of intangibles from acquisitions: The Company incurs amortization of intangibles, included in its GAAP presentation of operating expense, related to the various acquisitions it has made. Management excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP operating expense, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes that eliminating this expense from operating income is useful to investors because it believes the GAAP measure, alone, is not indicative of its core operating expenses and performance.
Reduction of other long-lived assets: The Company incurs costs, included in its GAAP presentation of operating expense, related to the reduction of the carrying value of long-lived assets primarily related to SFAS 144 adjustments. SFAS 144 adjustments typically occur when the financial performance of the business utilizing the affected assets falls below certain thresholds or certain assets are designated as held for sale. Accordingly, SFAS 144 related asset value reductions are non-recurring and generally unpredictable. The Company believes that eliminating this item, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP operating expense, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA, is useful to investors. We believe this non-GAAP adjustment will assist investors to compare current versus past performance. The Company's historical adjustments to the carrying value of certain of its assets under SFAS 144, as well as the methodology used by the Company in assessing the same, are more particularly described in its quarterly reports on form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K.
Cumulative effect of an accounting change: The Company incurred an expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 related to an accounting change. This expense is non recurring and not indicative of the Company's ongoing core operating performance. The Company excludes these items in the period for the nine months ended March 31, 2004, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and non-GAAP EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes the comparable GAAP measures are not indicative of its core operating performance.
Depreciation expense: The Company incurs depreciation expense in its operating results. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP EBITDA excludes items as a result of interest, taxes,
 
depreciation and amortization. Management believes non-GAAP EBITDA is indicative of the Company's core operational cash flow.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross margin is gross margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating expense is operating expense. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net loss is net loss. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net loss per share is net loss per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP EBITDA is loss from operations. The Company believes that these GAAP measures alone are not indicative of its core operating expenses and performance. A reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information is set forth below.
 
The following table reconciles the non-GAAP gross margin, operating expense, net loss, net loss per share, and EBITDA financial measures to GAAP (in millions, except per share amounts):


