FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20060822164441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On August 17, 2006, Peter A. Guglielmi notified the Company that he will be retiring from the Companys Board of Directors effective immediately prior to the 2006 Annual Meeting of the Companys stockholders (the 2006 Annual Meeting), and will not be seeking reelection to the Board at the Companys Annual Meeting. Mr. Guglielmis retirement is not because of any disagreement with the Company on any matter related to the Companys operations, policies or practices, nor did Mr. Guglielmi furnish the Company with a letter describing any disagreement or requesting that any matter be disclosed.
On August 17, 2006, the Board voted to (a) amend and restate the Companys Bylaws
(the Amended and Restated Bylaws)
to decrease the number of directors from ten (10) to nine (9), effective immediately prior to the Annual Meeting; (b) re-allocate director Harold L. Covert from Class I to Class II, effective immediately prior to the Annual Meeting, in order to balance the three classes of directors equally; and (c) nominate Harold L. Covert for election as a Class II director at the Annual Meeting.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On August 17, 2006, the Board approved an amendment of the Companys Amended and Restated Bylaws, with effect immediately prior to the 2006 Annual Meeting, to decrease the number of directors from ten (10) to nine (9) directors.
A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws incorporating the change in the authorized number of directors of the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.5 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 3.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


