FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20060217163115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
 
On February 13, 2006 the Company took steps to commit itself to the further consolidation of its manufacturing operations and the transfer of such operations to other Company facilities and to the facilities of its contract manufacturing partners, including Fabrinet. Specifically, the Company has entered into an agreement with Fabrinet to divest its manufacturing operations located in Ottawa, Canada. The Company expects this transaction to be completed by the end of the third quarter of the 2006 fiscal year ending April 1, 2006. The Company expects that the divestiture of the Ottawa manufacturing operations will reduce headcount by approximately 300 employees. This transaction is another phase in the Company's plan to consolidate and transfer the Company's optical communications manufacturing operations to lower cost manufacturing locations.
 
The Company estimates total restructuring and non-recurring charges associated with the divestiture of the Ottawa manufacturing operations will be approximately $17 million, all of which will require the outlay of cash. These charges will include severance costs of approximately $4 million which were included in charges disclosed in the Company's Form 8-K filed on November 15, 2005, lease termination costs of approximately $2 million, relocation of production costs of approximately $7 million and costs and fees of approximately $4 million for services related to managing the transfer of operations described above.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


