FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20081029190053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On October 24, 2008 Kevin Kennedy notified JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") of his resignation as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, effective as of December 31, 2008. Mr. Kennedy will continue to serve as a member of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company and will become Vice Chairman of the Board following the effective date of his resignation as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company.
On October 28, 2008 the Company and David Gudmundson agreed that, effective October 28, 2008, Mr. Gudmundson's service as Executive Vice President and President, Optical Communications Products Group will cease and he will assume the new role of Vice President, Senior Advisor, Optical Technologies.
(e) On October 28, 2008 the Company and Mr. Gudmundson entered into an agreement (the "Gudmundson Agreement"), pursuant to which, effective November 9, 2008, Mr. Gudmundson's base salary will be changed to $200,000. Thereafter on January 4, 2009, Mr. Gudmundson's base salary will be $100,000. In addition, Mr. Gudmundson's target incentive opportunity under the Company's incentive plan (the "Plan") will be 35% of his base salary beginning with the second half of fiscal year 2009.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
October 29, 2008

Exhibit 10.22
 
 
Dear David:
Further to your recent discussions with the Company, this letter will confirm the terms of your continued employment with JDS Uniphase Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliated entities (the "Company" or "JDSU").
Effective immediately you will assume the role of Vice President and Senior Advisor, Optical Technologies, grade E100 within the Company's leveling structure. You will continue to report to the Chief Executive Officer. Your new annualized base salary will be $200,000 effective on the next Company payroll cycle following the date of this letter and you will continue to participate in the Company's Incentive Plan at your previous level of E300 for the remainder of the first half of fiscal 2009.
Commencing on January 4, 2009 your base salary will be reduced to $100,000 and your target incentive opportunity under the Company's Incentive Plan for the second half of FY2009 will align with your new role and level at 35% of your base salary. For clarity, your previously granted equity awards will be unaffected by the change in your role and will continue to vest in accordance with the terms of each respective grant.
Consistent with Company policy, this letter represents the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding the terms of your employment with the exception of agreements relative to the protection of Company confidential and proprietary information, will supersede any previous discussions and understandings, and may not be modified except in writing signed by you and the Company.
To acknowledge your understanding and acceptance of the terms of this letter agreement we would appreciate your signing where indicated below.
 
 


