FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20090120165836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.06 Material Impairments
On January 16, 2009, JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") concluded that it will be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the Company's goodwill, largely as a result of the adverse impact of the current macroeconomic business environment on the Company's financial outlook. The Company expects to record a material non-cash charge in the fiscal quarter ended December 27, 2008, of up to the Company's total goodwill balance of $744 million.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the Company's current expectations regarding its evaluation of goodwill and the impairment charges it expects to record. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Current Report. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control. Information concerning risk, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 28, 2008 and in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2008, which statements are incorporated into this Current Report by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


