FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20101104162257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 4, 2010, JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") reported its results for its first quarter ended October 2, 2010 of its fiscal year 2011. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
JDSU News Release
 
 
 
 JDSU (NASDAQ: JDSU; and TSX: JDU) today reported results for its first fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2010.
Milpitas, California, November 4, 2010
On a GAAP basis, net revenue for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 was $405.2 million and net income was $0.1 million, or breakeven earnings per share. This compares to net revenue of $390.9 million and net income of $1.5 million, or $0.01 per share for the prior quarter, and net revenue of $297.8 million and net loss of $(31.9) million, or $(0.15) per share for the first fiscal quarter of 2010.
On a non-GAAP basis, net revenue for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 was $411.3 million and net income for the quarter was $44.8 million or $0.20 per share. This compares to non-GAAP net revenue of $398.1 million and net income of $33.1 million, or $0.15 per share for the prior quarter, and non-GAAP net revenue of $298.6 million and net income of $9.0 million or $0.04 per share for the first fiscal quarter of 2010.
"In fiscal Q1, JDSU reported its highest gross margin in five years and operating margin that was above our previously stated guidance," said Tom Waechter, JDSU's President and Chief Executive Officer. "We expect to continue growing the business as supply constraints ease in our Optical Communications and Test and Measurement businesses and we invest in incremental capacity for Optical Communications. Our balance sheet remains strong and we generated over $35 million of cash from operations during the quarter."
Financial Overview First Fiscal Quarter Ended October 2, 2010
All numbers in this section are non-GAAP unless stated otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
For the second quarter of fiscal 2011, ending January 1, 2011, the Company expects non-GAAP net revenue to be in the range of $425 to $450 million.
Conference Call
The Company will discuss these results and other related matters at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on November 4, 2010 in a live webcast, which will also be archived for replay on the Company's website at . The Company will post and distribute slides outlining the Company's latest financial results concurrent with this earnings press release. These slides will now be available prior to management's presentation in order to provide the investment community with additional time for review and analysis. These slides are supplementary and will not be discussed during the earnings call. They will be posted on under the "Financial Information" section. This press release is being furnished as a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and will be available at .
www.jdsu.com/investors
www.jdsu.com/investors
www.sec.gov
About JDSU
JDSU (NASDAQ: JDSU; and TSX: JDU) enables broadband and optical innovation in the communications, commercial and consumer markets. JDSU is a leading provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for telecommunications service providers, cable operators, and network equipment manufacturers. JDSU is also a leading provider of innovative optical solutions for medical/environmental instrumentation, semiconductor processing, display, brand authentication, aerospace and defense, and decorative applications. More information is available at .
www.jdsu.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains, and the discussions in our subsequent conference call will contain, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include: (i) any anticipation or guidance as to future financial performance, including future revenue, gross margin, operating expense, operating margin, EBITDA, cash flow and other financial metrics; and (ii) the Company's beliefs regarding the purpose, usefulness and efficacy of non-GAAP results and the measures and items the Company includes in the same, as well as any benefits to investors the Company believes its non-GAAP measures provide. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. In particular, the Company's ability to predict future financial performance continues to be difficult due to, among other things: (a) continuing general limited visibility across many of our product lines exacerbated by the current credit and financial market uncertainty, as well as the migration to vendor managed inventory programs; (b) quarter-over-quarter product mix fluctuations, which can materially impact profitability measures due to the broad gross margin range across our portfolio; (c) consolidation of our customer base, which, in the shorter term limits demand visibility, and, in the longer term, could reduce our business potential; (d) average selling prices continue to decline across our businesses; (e) our Communications Test and Measurement business is notable for seasonality and a significant level of in-quarter book-and-ship business, further limiting our forecasting abilities; (f) we are currently engaged in various product and manufacturing transfers, site consolidations and product discontinuances, which has caused and may cause short term disruptions; and (g) the ability of our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet production and delivery requirements to our forecasted demand.
For more information on these and other risks affecting the Company's business, please refer to the "Risk Factors" section included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are made as of the date hereof and the Company does not assume any obligation to update the reasons why actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Contact Information
Cherryl Valenzuela, 408-546-4521 or
Investors:
cherryl.valenzuela@jdsu.com
Jim Monroe, 240-404-1922, or
Press:
jim.monroe@jdsu.com
The following financial tables are presented in accordance with GAAP, unless otherwise specified.
 
JDSU News Release
 
Note: Certain totals may not add due to rounding
 
Note: Certain totals may not add due to rounding
 
Note: Certain totals may not add due to rounding
 
Use of Non-GAAP (Adjusted) Financial Measures
The Company provides non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per share, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA financial measures as supplemental information regarding the Company's operational performance. The Company evaluates Company-wide segment performance using, among other things, the measures disclosed in this release for the purposes of evaluating the Company's historical and prospective financial performance, as well as its performance relative to its competitors. Specifically, management uses these items to further its own understanding of the Company's core operating performance. The Company believes its "core operating performance" represents the Company's performance in the ordinary, ongoing and customary course of its operations. Accordingly, management excludes from "core operating performance" those items, such as those relating to restructuring, investing, stock-based compensation expense and non-cash activities that management does not believe are reflective of such ordinary, ongoing and customary course activities.
The Company believes that providing this information to its investors, in addition to the GAAP presentation, allows investors to see Company results "through the eyes" of management. The Company further believes that providing this information allows Company investors to both better understand the Company's financial performance and, importantly, to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
The non-GAAP adjustments described in this release have historically been excluded by the Company from its non-GAAP measures. The non-GAAP adjustments, and the basis for excluding them, are outlined below.
Revenue from acquisition related deferred revenue: The Company excludes the fair value adjustment to acquisition related deferred revenue when calculating non-GAAP revenue. The Company believes that the non-GAAP revenue provides useful information for the investors as they review for underlying trends in the business and facilitate the investors' comparisons of the Company's revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the Company's peers.
Cost of goods sold, costs of research and development and costs of selling, general and administrative: The Company has incurred periodic expenses, included in its GAAP presentation of gross margin and operating expenses that may include (i) additional depreciation from changes in estimated useful life and the write-down of certain property and equipment that has been identified for disposal but remained in use until the date of disposal, (ii) workforce related charges such as retention bonuses and employee relocation costs related to a formal restructuring plan, (iii) costs for facilities not required for ongoing operations, and costs related to the relocation of certain equipment from these facilities and/or contract manufacturer facilities, (iv)stock-based compensation under authoritative guidance, (v) other non-recurring charges comprising mainly of one-time acquisition, integration and other costs. The Company excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per share and adjusted EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes that the impact of these items does not reflect expected future gross profits or operating expenses nor does the Company believe that they provide a meaningful evaluation of current versus past core operational performance.
 
Gain or loss on sale of available for-sale investments and impairment of investments: The Company has sold investments or adjusted the value of investments from time to time based on market conditions. The Company's activities in this respect are included in the Company's GAAP presentation of net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share. The Company's core business does not include making financial investments in third parties, and such investments do not constitute a material portion of the Company's assets. Moreover, the amount and timing of gains and losses and adjustments to the value of investments are unpredictable. Consequently, the Company believes that gains or losses on these sales and adjustments to the value of investments are not related to the ongoing core business and operating performance of the Company. The Company excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per share, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes this GAAP measure is not indicative of the Company's core operating performance.
Amortization of intangibles from acquisitions: The Company records amortization expense related to intangibles. These expenses are included in its GAAP presentation of cost of goods sold and operating expense, related to the various acquisitions it has made. Management excludes these items, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per share, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The Company believes that eliminating this expense from operating income is useful to investors because it believes the GAAP measure, alone, is not indicative of its core cost of goods sold and operating expenses and performance.
Non cash interest expense: The Company incurs non-cash interest expense accounted for under the authoritative guidance on convertible debt instruments, which requires to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of such instruments. The Company believes that eliminating this item, for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share, is useful to investors. The Company describes the impact of this guidance, in its fiscal 2010 forms 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K. The Company believes this GAAP measure is not indicative of its core operating performance.
Interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and other adjustments: The Company's calculation of EBITDA excludes interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA also excludes items that are not part of its "core operating performance" which are described in detail in the aforementioned paragraphs. Management believes adjusted EBITDA is indicative of the Company's core operational cash flow.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net income (loss) is net income (loss). The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net income (loss) per share is net income (loss) per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to adjusted EBITDA is income (loss) from operations. The Company believes that these GAAP measures alone are not indicative of its core operating expenses and performance.
 
The following tables reconcile preliminary GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures based on our current information:
 
Note: Certain totals may not add due to rounding
 
Note: Certain totals may not add due to rounding
 
Note: Certain totals may not add due to rounding


