FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20111025172754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 25, 2011, JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the impact of flooding in Thailand upon one of the Company's contract manufacturing partners. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 7.01, including information incorporated herein by reference, is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
October 25, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Milpitas, California, October 25, 2011  JDSU (NASDAQ: JDSU) (TSX: JDU) today issued the following statement addressing flooding in Thailand that is impacting the operations of Fabrinet, one of three primary contract manufacturing partners that provide services to JDSU's Communication and Commercial Optical Products (CCOP) business segment:
Fabrinet provides contract manufacturing services supporting a portion of the CCOP product portfolio from its
Pinehurst facility
in Thailand
.
At the present time,
flooding has not breached the Pinehurst facility, but operations at this site are suspended due to the impact
of flooding
on utilities and transportation systems.
JDSU is not supplied from Fabrinet's
Chokchai
facility,
which Fabrinet has reported has been breached by flood waters.
JDSU personnel are on site working with Fabrinet.
We are closely monitoring the situation
and communicating with our customers,
taking
action
to secure equipment
and inventory
at the site
,
and
developing and preparing to execute
contingency plans. We are evaluating
the
impact
of these events
on
our CCOP segment
and will provide an update when we report first
quarter earnings results on November 1, 2011.
JDSU's Communications Test and Measurement and Advanced Optical Technology business segments anticipate little to no impact from the events related to Fabrinet's operations in Thailand.
We are pleased to report that JDSU's 26 employees in Thailand are safe and secure at this time.
About JDSU
JDSU (NASDAQ: JDSU; and TSX: JDU) innovates and markets diverse technologies that enhance the way people experience the world every day. We enable fast, high-quality communications, secure financial transactions, reliable consumer electronics, green energy, differentiated brands and a host of other solutions. We provide these solutions through three business segments: Communications Test and Measurement, Communications and Commercial Optical Products, and Advanced Optical Technologies. To learn more about JDSU, please visit and and follow us on , , and .
www.jdsu.com
www.jdsu.tv
JDSU
Perspectives
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
Contacts:
Press/Industry: Jim Monroe, +1 240-404-1922,
jim.monroe@jdsu.com
Investors: Michelle Levine Schwartz, +1 408-546-4421,
michelle.schwartz@jdsu.com


