FILE:JDSU/JDSU-8K-20110815171327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 10, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") approved a form of Indemnification Agreement (the "Indemnification Agreement") to be entered into with the current and future members of the Board as well as the Company's Chief Executive Officer. Among other things, the Indemnification Agreement limits the liability of the Company's directors and officers and provides for indemnification in connection with losses they may incur in connection with or arising out of the performance of their duties. The Indemnification Agreement supersedes any previous agreements between the Company and its directors or Chief Executive Officer with respect to indemnification obligations.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by the text of the Indemnification Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.9 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On August 10, 2011, Casimir Skrzypczak and Richard Liebhaber notified the Company that they will not stand for re-election at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Messrs. Skrzypczak's and Liebhaber's current terms on the Board are set to expire at the 2011 annual meeting. Their retirement is not due to any disagreement with the Company on any matter related to the Company's operations, policies or practices, nor did either of them furnish the Company with a letter describing any disagreement or requesting that any matter be disclosed.
In connection with the resignation of Messrs. Skrzypczak and Liebhaber, the Board reclassified Penelope Herscher and Masood Jabbar as Class III directors, effective November 16, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting Date"). As Class III directors, Ms. Herscher's and Mr. Jabbar's terms will expire at the 2011 annual meeting.
(e) On August 10, 2011, the Board approved an increase in the target incentive opportunity for Thomas Waechter, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, under the Company's Variable Pay Plan (the "VPP") from 100% of his base salary to 120% of his base salary. The increased rate will apply to the awards Mr. Waechter receives under the VPP during fiscal year 2012.
On August 9, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved an amendment to the Company's 2008 Change of Control Benefits Plan (the "Plan"), which provides certain severance and other benefits to eligible executives whose employment is terminated as a result of or following a change of control of the Company. The amendment extends the term of the Plan until December 31, 2014 and clarifies that, in the event benefits become payable under the Plan, any outstanding performance-based equity awards will be subject to accelerated vesting at 100% of target, and otherwise consistent with the current terms of the Plan.
The foregoing is a summary description of the material terms of the amendment to the Plan and is qualified in its entirety by the text of the Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.8 and incorporated herein by reference.
On August 9 and 10, 2011, the Compensation Committee and the Board approved the performance-based vesting metric applicable to the Company's performance-based restricted stock unit ("RSU") awards for senior executives, including our named executive officers, for fiscal year 2012 (the "Performance-Based RSUs "). The number of Performance-Based RSUs that vest will be based on the Company's total stockholder return ("TSR") relative to the performance of those companies in the NASDAQ Telecommunications Index (the "NASDAQ Telecom Index"). The NASDAQ Telecom Index is comprised of approximately 150 companies classified as telecommunications or telecommunications equipment suppliers listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. TSR for the Company and the NASDAQ Telecom Index will be measured over a three year performance period covering fiscal years 2012 through 2014, with one year (fiscal 2012), two year (fiscal 2012 and 2013), and three year (fiscal 2012, 2013 and 2014) TSR measurement periods. The TSR for each measurement period will be calculated using a 60-day trailing average of the closing stock prices of the NASDAQ Telecom Index and the Company for the period of July 15 to September 15 of each year as compared to the 60-day trailing average of the closing stock prices of the NASDAQ Telecom Index and the Company for the period of July 15, 2011 to September 15, 2011. Consistent with the Company's practice of granting equity awards on the 15
th
day of the month following approval of such awards, the Performance-Based RSUs were granted on August 15, 2011.
The Performance-Based RSU award for each participating executive will be divided into three equal tranches, with one tranche assigned to each measurement period. The actual number of shares that vest will be determined by the Compensation Committee based on the relative TSR for each measurement period and will range from 0% to 150% of the target amount. In order to vest in 100% of the target number of Performance-Based RSUs, the Company's TSR must be at the 50th percentile of the TSR of the NASDAQ Telecom Index for each measurement period. The 50th percentile was chosen because it requires the Company to perform at least as well as the majority of companies in the NASDAQ Telecom Index. If the Company's TSR is above the 50th percentile, the number of shares that vest will increase above the target number by 2% for each percentile above, and if the Company's TSR is below the 50th percentile, the number of shares that vest will decrease below the target number by 2% for each percentile below; provided that no shares will vest if the Company's performance is below the 25
th
percentile.
Subject to certain exceptions described in the Performance-Based RSU award agreement, recipients of the Performance-Based RSUs must be employed by the Company in order for the Performance-Based RSUs to vest. In the event of a change of control of the Company (as defined in the Performance-Based RSU award agreement), prior to the expiration of the three-year performance period, unvested tranches of the Performance-Based RSU awards will be converted to time-based RSUs vesting on the anniversary of the grant date applicable to the measurement period against which such tranche was previously measured.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) On August 10, 2011, the Board approved an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaw Amendment") to (i) decrease the number of directors from nine (9) to seven (7), effective as of the Annual Meeting Date, and (ii) to clarify the types of derivative instruments and other economic interests that must be disclosed by a stockholder who submits a nomination or proposal for consideration at the Company's annual meeting.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.5 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.5
 
 
 
 
Section 1. Registered Office.
The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Dover, County of Kent.
Section 2. Other Offices.
The corporation shall also have and maintain an office or principal place of business at 430 North McCarthy Boulevard, Milpitas, California 95035, and may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Section 1. Place of Meetings.
(a) Meetings of stockholders may be held at such place, either within or without this State, as may be designated by or in the manner provided in these Bylaws or, if not so designated, as determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as authorized by paragraph (b) of this Section 1.
(b) If authorized by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board of Directors may adopt, stockholders and proxyholders not physically present at a meeting of stockholders may, by means of remote communication:
(1) Participate in a meeting of stockholders; and
(2) Be deemed present in person and vote at a meeting of stockholders whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication, provided that (A) the corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxyholder, (B) the corporation shall implement reasonable
 
measures to provide such stockholders and proxyholders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings, and (C) if any stockholder or proxyholder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, a record of such vote or other action shall be maintained by the corporation.
(c) For purposes of this Section 1, "remote communication" shall mean electronic mail or other forms of written or visual electronic communication satisfying the requirements of Section 11(b).
Section 2. Annual Meetings.
The annual meetings of the stockholders of the corporation, commencing with the year 1994, for the purpose of election of directors and for such other business as may lawfully come before it, shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 3. Special Meetings.
Special Meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors at any time, subject to the rights of the holders of any stock having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or liquidation. Stockholders are not permitted to call a special meeting or to require the Board of Directors to call a special meeting of stockholders.
Section 4. Notice of Meetings.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, written notice of each meeting of stockholders, specifying the place, if any, date and hour and purpose or purposes of the meeting, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat, directed to his address as it appears upon the books of the corporation; except that where the matter to be acted on is a merger or consolidation of the Corporation or a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of its assets, such notice shall be given not less than twenty nor more than sixty days prior to such meeting.
(b) If at any meeting action is proposed to be taken which, if taken, would entitle stockholders fulfilling the requirements of Section 262(d) of the Delaware General Corporation Law to an appraisal of the fair value of their shares, the notice of such meeting shall contain a statement of that purpose and to that effect and shall be accompanied by a copy of that statutory section.
(c) When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time, place, if any, thereof, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, are announced at the meeting at which the
 
adjournment is taken unless the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or unless after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, in which event a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
(d) Notice of the time, place and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing, either before or after such meeting, and, to the extent permitted by law, will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat, in person or by proxy. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
(e) Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the corporation under any provision of this chapter, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if (i) the corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the corporation in accordance with such consent, and (ii) such inability becomes known to the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation or to the transfer agent or other person responsible for the giving of notice; provided, however, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action. Notice given pursuant to this subparagraph (e) shall be deemed given: (1) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (3) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder. An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the corporation that the notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. For purposes of these Bylaws, "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
Section 5. Quorum and Voting.
(a) At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the presence, in person or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Shares, the voting of which at said meeting have been enjoined, or which for any reason cannot be lawfully voted at such meeting, shall not be counted to determine a quorum at said meeting. In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from time to time, by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all action taken by the holders of a majority of the voting power represented at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be valid and binding upon the corporation.
Section 6. Voting Rights.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares entitled to vote stand on the stock records of the corporation on the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting shall be entitled to vote at such meeting. Shares standing in the names of two or more persons shall be voted or represented in accordance with the determination of the majority of such persons, or, if only one of such persons is present in person or represented by proxy, such person shall have the right to vote such shares and such shares shall be deemed to be represented for the purpose of determining a quorum.
(b) Every person entitled to vote or to execute consents shall have the right to do so either in person or by an agent or agents authorized by a written proxy executed by such person or his duly authorized agent, which proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the corporation at or before the meeting at which it is to be used. Said proxy so appointed need not be a stockholder. No proxy shall be voted on after three (3) years from its date unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Unless and until voted, every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the person who executed it or of his legal representatives or assigns, except in those cases where an irrevocable proxy permitted by statute has been given.
(c) Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him as proxy pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority:
(1) A stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or his authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
(2) A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telephone, telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telephone transmission, telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telephone transmission, telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. Such authorization can be established by the signature of the stockholder on the proxy, either in writing or by a signature stamp or facsimile signature, or by a number or symbol from which the identity of the stockholder can be determined, or by any other procedure deemed
 
appropriate by the inspectors or other persons making the determination as to due authorization. If it is determined that such telephone transmissions, telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic transmissions are valid, the inspectors or, if there are no inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied.
(d) Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Section 7. Voting Procedures and Inspectors of Elections.
(a) The corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
(b) The inspectors shall (i) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.
(c) The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxies or votes, nor any revocations thereof or changes thereto, shall be accepted by the Inspectors after the closing of the polls unless the Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine otherwise.
(d) In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted with those proxies, any information provided in accordance with Section 212(c)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, ballots and the regular books and records of the corporation, except that the inspectors may consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for the limited purpose permitted herein, the inspectors at the time they make their certification pursuant to subsection (b)(v) of this section shall specify the precise information considered by them including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
 
Section 8. List of Stockholders.
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held and which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not specified, at the place where said meeting is to be held, and the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
Section 9. Stockholder Proposals at Annual Meetings.
At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. In addition to any other applicable requirements for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 40 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made.
A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the text of the proposal or business, including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the corporation, the language of the proposed amendment, (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is being made, and any of their respective affiliates or associates or others acting in concert therewith (each, a "Proposing Person"), the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business and of any other Proposing Person, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at the meeting on the date of such notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose the business specified in the notice, (iv) any material interest of the stockholder and any other Proposing Person in such business, (v) the following information regarding the ownership interests of the stockholder and any other Proposing Person which shall
 
be supplemented in writing by the stockholder not later than 10 days after the record date for voting at the meeting to disclose such interests as of such record date: (A) the class or series and number of shares of the corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by the stockholder and any other Proposing Person; (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the corporation, any derivative or synthetic arrangement having the characteristics of a long position in any class or series of shares of the corporation, or any contract, derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions designed to produce economic benefits and risks that correspond substantially to the ownership of any class or series of shares of the corporation, including due to the fact that the value of such contract, derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions is determined by reference to the price, value or volatility of any class or series of shares of the corporation, whether or not such instrument, contract or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of shares of the corporation, through the delivery of cash or other property, or otherwise, and without regard to whether the stockholder of record or any other Proposing Person may have entered into transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such instrument, contract or right (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or other Proposing Person, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation; (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder or other Proposing Person has a right to vote any shares of any security of the corporation; (D) any agreement, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, including any repurchase or similar so-called "stock borrowing" agreement or arrangement, engaged in, directly or indirectly, by such stockholder or other Proposing Person, the purpose or effect of which is to mitigate loss to, reduce the economic risk (of ownership or otherwise) of any class or series of the shares of the corporation by, manage the risk of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or other Proposing Person with respect to any class or series of the shares of the corporation, or which provides, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the price or value of any class or series of the shares of the corporation ("Short Interests"); (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder or other Proposing Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation; (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder or other Proposing Person is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner; (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) to which such stockholder or other Proposing Person is entitled based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including, without limitation, any such interests held by members of such stockholder's or other Proposing Person's immediate family sharing the same household; (H) any significant equity interests or any Derivative Instruments or Short Interests in any principal competitor of the corporation held by such stockholder or other Proposing Person; and (I) any direct or indirect interest of such stockholder or other Proposing Person in any contract with the corporation, any affiliate of the corporation or any principal competitor of the corporation (including, in any such case, any employment agreement, collective bargaining
 
agreement or consulting agreement), and (vi) any other information relating to such stockholder or other Proposing Person, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
The provisions of this Section 9 and of Section 10 dealing with requirements to be satisfied by a stockholder who wishes to present business at the annual meeting, are applicable whether or not the stockholder seeks to have proposed business included in the corporation's proxy statement; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 9 or Section 10 shall affect the right of a stockholder to request inclusion of a proposal in the corporation's proxy statement to the extent that such right is provided by an applicable rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Notwithstanding anything in the Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at the annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 1 and this Section 9, provided, however, that nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with said procedure.
The Chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 and this Section 9, and if he should so determine he shall so declare to the meeting, and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Section 10. Nominations of Persons for Election to the Board of Directors.
In addition to any other applicable requirements, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, by any nominating committee or person appointed by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 40 days notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made. Each such notice shall set forth (i) as to the stockholder giving the notice, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made, and any of their respective affiliates or associates or others acting in concert therewith (each, a "Nominating Person"), the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder
 
who intends to make the nomination and of any other Nominating Person, (ii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors on the date of such notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (iii) the following information regarding the ownership interests of the stockholder and any other Nominating Person, which shall be supplemented in writing by the stockholder not later than 10 days after the record date for notice of the meeting to disclose such interests as of such record date: (A) the class or series and number of shares of the corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by the stockholder and any other Nominating Person; (B) any Derivative Instrument directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or other Nominating Person, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation; (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder or other Nominating Person has a right to vote any shares of any security of the corporation; (D) any Short Interests in any securities of the corporation directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or other Nominating Person; (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder or other Nominating Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation; (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder or other Nominating Person is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner; (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) to which such stockholder or other Nominating Person is entitled based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including, without limitation, any such interests held by members of such stockholder's or other Nominating Person's immediate family sharing the same household; (H) any significant equity interests or any Derivative Instruments or Short Interests in any principal competitor of the corporation held by such stockholder or other Nominating Person; and (I) any direct or indirect interest of such stockholder or other Nominating Person in any contract with the corporation, any affiliate of the corporation or any principal competitor of the corporation (including, in any such case, any employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement or consulting agreement), (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder or other Nominating Person and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder, (v) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and any other Nominating Person, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant, (vi) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended
 
to be nominated, by the Board of Directors, and (vii) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the corporation if so elected. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. These provisions shall not apply to nomination of any persons entitled to be separately elected by holders of preferred stock.
The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Section 11. Action Without Meeting.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required by statute to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation, or any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing setting forth the action so taken are signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. To be effective, a written consent must be delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to a corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent, and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty days of the earliest dated consent delivered in the manner required by this Section to the corporation, written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take action are delivered to the corporation in accordance with this Section. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing.
(b) A telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission consent to an action to be taken and transmitted by a stockholder or proxyholder, or by a person or persons authorized to act for a stockholder or proxyholder, shall be deemed to be written, signed and dated for the purposes of this Section, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission sets forth or is delivered with information from which the corporation can determine (i) that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was transmitted by the stockholder or proxyholder or by a person or persons authorized to act for the stockholder or proxyholder, and (ii) the date on which such stockholder or proxyholder or authorized person or persons transmitted such telegram, cablegram or electronic transmission. The date on which such telegram, cablegram or electronic transmission is transmitted shall be deemed to be the date on which such consent was signed. No consent given by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been delivered until such consent is reproduced in paper form and until such paper form shall be delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in this State, its principal place of business or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery
 
made to a corporation's registered office shall be made by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations on delivery, consents given by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission may be otherwise delivered to the principal place of business of the corporation or to an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded if to the extent and in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors of the corporation.
(c) Any copy, facsimile or other reliable reproduction of a consent in writing may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing for any and all purposes for which the original writing could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing.
Section 1. Number and Term of Office.
The number of directors which shall constitute the whole of the Board of Directors shall be nine (9); provided, however, that effective November 16, 2011, the number of directors which shall constitute the whole of the Board of Directors shall be seven (7). With the exception of the first Board of Directors, which shall be elected by the incorporators, and except as provided in Section 3 of this Article III, the directors shall be elected by a plurality vote of the shares represented in person or by proxy, at the stockholders annual meeting in each year and entitled to vote on the election of directors. Elected directors shall hold office until their successors shall be duly elected and qualified. Directors need not be stockholders. If, for any cause, the Board of Directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.
Section 2. Powers.
The powers of the corporation shall be exercised, its business conducted and its property controlled by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.
Section 3. Vacancies.
Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and each director so elected shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the director whose place shall be vacant, and until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. A vacancy in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to exist under this section in the case of the death, removal or resignation of any director, or if the stockholders fail at any meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected (including any meeting referred to in Section 4 below) to elect the number of directors then constituting the whole Board.
 
Section 4. Resignations and Removals.
(a) Any director may resign at any time by delivering his written resignation to the Secretary, such resignation to specify whether it will be effective at a particular time, upon receipt by the Secretary or at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. If no such specification is made it shall be deemed effective at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. When one or more directors shall resign from the Board, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the director whose place shall be vacated and until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
(b) At a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose in the manner hereinabove provided, the Board of Directors, or any individual director, may be removed from office, with or without cause, and a new director or directors elected by a vote of stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at an election of directors.
Section 5. Meetings.
(a) The annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately after the annual stockholders' meeting and at the place where such meeting is held or at the place announced by the Chairman at such meeting. No notice of an annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be necessary and such meeting shall be held for the purpose of electing officers and transacting such other business as may lawfully come before it.
(b) Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held in the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 of Article I hereof. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may also be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware which has been designated by resolutions of the Board of Directors or the written consent of all directors.
(c) Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board or, if there is no Chairman of the Board, by the President, or by any of the directors.
(d) Written notice of the time and place of all regular and special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be delivered personally to each director or sent by telegram or facsimile transmission at least 48 hours before the start of the meeting, or sent by first class mail at least 120 hours before the start of the meeting. Notice of any meeting may be waived in writing at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat.
Section 6. Quorum and Voting.
(a) A quorum of the Board of Directors shall consist of a majority of the exact number of directors fixed from time to time in accordance with Section I of Article III of these Bylaws, but not less than one; provided, however, at any meeting whether a quorum be present or otherwise, a majority of the directors present may adjourn from time to time until the time fixed for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors, without notice other than by announcement at the meeting.
 
(b) At each meeting of the Board at which a quorum is present all questions and business shall be determined by a vote of a majority of the directors present, unless a different vote be required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws.
(c) Any member of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting by means of conference telephone or similar communication equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
(d) The transactions of any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, however called or noticed, or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present shall sign a written waiver of notice, or a consent to holding such meeting, or an approval of the minutes thereof. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Section 7. Action Without Meeting.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and such writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Section 8. Fees and Compensation.
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services, and such reimbursement for expenses, as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 9. Committees.
(a) Executive Committee: The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, appoint an Executive Committee of not less than one member, each of whom shall be a director. The Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law, shall have and may exercise when the Board of Directors is not in session all powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, including, without limitation, the power and authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock, except such committee shall not have the power or authority to amend the Certificate of Incorporation, to adopt an agreement or merger or consolidation, to recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, to recommend to the stockholders of the Corporation a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or to amend these Bylaws.
 
(b) Other Committees: The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, from time to time appoint such other committees as may be permitted by law. Such other committees appointed by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the resolution or resolutions creating such committee, but in no event shall any such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these Bylaws.
(c) Term: The members of all committees of the Board of Directors shall serve a term coexistent with that of the Board of Directors which shall have appointed such committee. The Board, subject to the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) of this Section 9, may at any time increase or decrease the number of members of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee; provided, that no committee shall consist of less than one member. The membership of a committee member shall terminate on the date of his death or voluntary resignation, but the Board may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member and the Board may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation, removal or increase in the number of members of the committee. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
(d) Meetings: Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to this Section 9 shall be held at such times and places as are determined by the Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular meetings need be given thereafter; special meetings of any such committee may be held at the principal office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 of Article I hereof; or at any place which has been designated from time to time by resolution of such committee or by written consent of all members thereof, and may be called by any director who is a member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee of the time and place of such special meeting given in the manner provided for the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of the time and place of special meetings of the Board of Directors. Notice of any special meeting of any committee may be waived in writing at any time after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat. A majority of the authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.
 
Section 1. Officers Designated.
The officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors and a President, each of whom shall be a member of the Board of Directors, and one or more Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The order of the seniority of the Vice Presidents shall be in the order of their nomination, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the President may also appoint one or more assistant secretaries, assistant treasurers, and such other officers and agents with such powers and duties as it or he shall deem necessary. The Board of Directors may assign such additional titles to one or more of the officers as they shall deem appropriate. Any one person may hold any number of offices of the corporation at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law. The salaries and other compensation of the officers of the corporation shall be fixed by or in the manner designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 2. Tenure and Duties of Officers.
(a) General: All officers shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, unless sooner removed. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors. If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors. Nothing in these Bylaws shall be construed as creating any kind of contractual right to employment with the corporation.
(b) Duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors: The Chairman of the Board of Directors (if there be such an officer appointed) shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
(c) Duties of President: The President shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation (unless the Board of Directors shall designate otherwise) and shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Board of Directors, unless the Chairman of the Board of Directors has been appointed and is present. The President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
(d) Duties of Vice-Presidents: The Vice-Presidents, in the order of their seniority, may assume and perform the duties of the President in the absence or disability of the President or whenever the office of the President is vacant. The Vice-President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time.
(e) Duties of Secretary: The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and any committee thereof, and shall record all acts and proceedings thereof in the minute book of the corporation. The Secretary shall give notice, in
 
conformity with these Bylaws, of all meetings of the shareholders, and of all meetings of the Board of Directors and any Committee thereof requiring notice. The Secretary shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. The President may direct any Assistant Secretary to assume and perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence or disability of the Secretary, and each Assistant Secretary shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time.
(f) Duties of Treasurer: The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept the books of account of the corporation in a thorough and proper manner, and shall render statements of the financial affairs of the corporation in such form and as often as required by the Board of Directors or the President. The Treasurer, subject to the order of the Board of Directors, shall have the custody of all funds and securities of the corporation. The Treasurer shall perform all other duties commonly incident to his office and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time. The President may direct any Assistant Treasurer to assume and perform the duties of the Treasurer in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, and each Assistant Treasurer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time. At the election of the Board of Directors, the duties of Treasurer shall be performed by a Vice President designated by the Board of Directors to perform financial functions.
Section 1. Execution of Corporate Instruments.
(a) The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers, or other person or persons, to execute any corporate instrument or document, or to sign the corporate name without limitation, except where otherwise provided by law, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the corporation.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Board of Directors or otherwise required by law, formal contracts of the corporation, promissory notes, deeds of trust, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness of the corporation, and other corporate instruments or documents requiring the corporate seal, and certificates of shares of stock owned by the corporation, shall be executed, signed or endorsed by the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer appointed) or by the President; such documents may also be executed by any Vice-President and by the Secretary or Treasurer or any Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer. All other instruments and documents requiring the corporate signature, but not requiring the corporate seal, may be executed as aforesaid or in such other manner as may be directed by the Board of Directors.
 
(c) All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositaries on funds to the credit of the corporation, or in special accounts of the corporation, shall be signed by such person or persons as the Board of Directors shall authorize so to do.
Section 2. Voting of Securities Owned by Corporation.
All stock and other securities of other corporations owned or held by the corporation for itself, or for other parties in any capacity, shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors or, in the absence of such authorization, by the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer appointed), or by the President, or by any Vice-President.
Section 1. Form and Execution of Certificates.
The shares of capital stock of the corporation shall be represented by a certificate, unless and until the Board of Directors of the corporation adopts a resolution permitting shares to be uncertificated. Notwithstanding the adoption of any such resolution providing for uncertificated shares, every holder of capital stock of the corporation theretofore represented by certificates and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate for shares of capital stock of the corporation signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer appointed), or by the President or any Vice- President and by the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the corporation. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. Certificates for the shares of stock of the corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law. If the corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate or otherwise noted in the case of an uncertificated share which the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock or otherwise noted in the case of an uncertificated share, provided that, except as otherwise provided in section 202 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
Section 2. Lost Certificates.
The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to indemnify the corporation in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the corporation a surety bond in such form and amount as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost or destroyed.
Section 3. Transfers.
Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the corporation, and in the case of certificated shares of stock, only by the holder thereof, in person or by attorney duly authorized, and upon the surrender of a certificate or certificates, properly endorsed for transfer and payment of all necessary transfer taxes; or, in the case of uncertificated shares of stock, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered holder of the shares or by such person's attorney lawfully constituted in writing, and upon payment of all necessary transfer taxes and compliance with appropriate procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form; provided, however, that such surrender and endorsement, compliance or payment of taxes shall not be required in any case in which the officers of the corporation shall determine to waive such requirement. With respect to certificated shares of stock, every certificate exchanged, returned or surrendered to the corporation shall be marked "Cancelled," with the date of cancellation, by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the corporation or the transfer agent thereof. No transfer of stock shall be valid as against the corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
Section 4. Fixing Record Dates.
(a) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the date on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
(b) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than ten days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by the Delaware General Corporation Law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to a corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(c) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Section 5. Registered Stockholders.
The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
All bonds, debentures and other corporate securities of the corporation, other than stock certificates, may be signed by the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer appointed), or the President or any Vice- President or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a facsimile of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; provided, however, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be authenticated by the manual signature of a trustee under an indenture pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be issued, the signature of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on such bond, debenture or other corporate
 
security may be the imprinted facsimile of the signatures of such persons. Interest coupons appertaining to any such bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as aforesaid, shall be signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the corporation, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person. In case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other corporate security, or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon or before the bond, debenture or other corporate security so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the corporation and issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the corporation.
The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the corporation and the state and date of its incorporation. Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Section 1. Right to Indemnification.
Each person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved (as a party, witness, or otherwise), in any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative (hereinafter a "Proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he, or a person of whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director, officer, employee, or agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of the Proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee, or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee, or agent (hereafter an "Agent"), shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or interpreted (but, in the case of any such amendment or interpretation, only to the extent that such amendment or interpretation permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than were permitted prior thereto) against all expenses, liability, and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement, and any interest, assessments, or other charges imposed thereon, and any federal, state, local, or foreign taxes imposed on any Agent as a result of the actual or deemed receipt of any payments under this Article) reasonably incurred or suffered by
 
such person in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in, or participating in (including on appeal), or preparing for any of the foregoing in, any Proceeding (hereinafter "Expenses"); provided, however, that except as to actions to enforce indemnification rights pursuant to Section 3 of this Article, the corporation shall indemnify any Agent seeking indemnification in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if the Proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article shall be a contract right.
Section 2. Authority to Advance Expenses.
Expenses incurred by an officer or director (acting in his capacity as such) in defending a Proceeding shall be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding, provided, however, that if required by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended, such Expenses shall be advanced only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized in this Article or otherwise. Expenses incurred by other Agents of the corporation (or by the directors or officers not acting in their capacity as such, including service with respect to employee benefit plans) may be advanced upon such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors deems appropriate. Any obligation to reimburse the corporation for Expense advances shall be unsecured and no interest shall be charged thereon.
Section 3. Right of Claimant to Bring Suit.
If a claim under Section 1 or 2 of this Article is not paid in full by the corporation within 120 days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense (including attorneys' fees) of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending a Proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking has been tendered to the corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper under the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant had not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Section 4. Provisions Nonexclusive.
The rights conferred on any person by this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights that such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, or
 
otherwise, both as to action in an official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. To the extent that any provision of the Certificate, agreement, or vote of the stockholders or disinterested directors is inconsistent with these bylaws, the provision, agreement, or vote shall take precedence.
Section 5. Authority to Insure.
The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Agent against any Expense, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify the Agent against such Expense under applicable law or the provisions of this Article.
Section 6. Survival of Rights.
The rights provided by this Article shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be an Agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, and administrators of such a person.
Section 7. Settlement of Claims.
The corporation shall not be liable to indemnify any Agent under this Article (a) for any amounts paid in settlement of any action or claim effected without the corporation's written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; or (b) for any judicial award if the corporation was not given a reasonable and timely opportunity, at its expense, to participate in the defense of such action.
Section 8. Effect of Amendment.
Any amendment, repeal, or modification of this Article shall not adversely affect any right or protection of any Agent existing at the time of such amendment, repeal, or modification.
Section 9. Subrogation.
In the event of payment under this Article, the corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Agent, who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the corporation effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Section 10. No Duplication of Payments.
The corporation shall not be liable under this Article to make any payment in connection with any claim made against the Agent to the extent the Agent has otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, agreement, vote, or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder.
 
Whenever, under any provisions of these Bylaws, notice is required to be given to any stockholder, the same shall be given either (1) in writing, timely and duly deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to his last known post office address as shown by the stock record of the corporation or its transfer agent, or (2) by a means of electronic transmission that satisfies the requirements of Section 4(e) of Article II of these Bylaws, and has been consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any notice required to be given to any director may be given by the method hereinabove stated, or by telegram or other means of electronic transmission, except that such notice other than one which is delivered personally, shall be sent to such address or (in the case of facsimile telecommunication) facsimile telephone number as such director shall have filed in writing with the Secretary of the corporation, or, in the absence of such filing, to the last known post office address of such director. If no address of a stockholder or director be known, such notice may be sent to the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 of Article I hereof. An affidavit of mailing, executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the corporation or its transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of stock affected, specifying the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or stockholders, director or directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall be conclusive evidence of the statements therein contained. All notices given by mail, as above provided, shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of mailing and all notices given by telegram or other means of electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been given as at the sending time recorded by the telegraph company or other electronic transmission equipment operator transmitting the same. It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving be employed in respect of all directors, but one permissible method may be employed in respect of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed in respect of any other or others. The period or limitation of time within which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege or benefit, or be required to act, or within which any director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any privilege, pursuant to any notice sent him in the manner above provided, shall not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such a stockholder or such director to receive such notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of the statutes or of the Certificate of Incorporation, or of these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to such person. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given. In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the certificate shall state, if such is the fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.
 
These Bylaws may be repealed, altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by written consent of stockholders in the manner authorized by Section 8 of Article II, or at any meeting of the stockholders, either annual or special, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the stock entitled to vote at such meeting. The Board of Directors shall also have the authority to repeal, alter or amend these Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws (including, without limitation, the amendment of any Bylaws setting forth the number of directors who shall constitute the whole Board of Directors) by unanimous written consent or at any annual, regular, or special meeting by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole number of directors, subject to the power of the stockholders to change or repeal such Bylaws and provided that the Board of Directors shall not make or alter any Bylaws fixing the qualifications, classifications, or term of office of directors.
 

Exhibit 10.8
1. .
Introduction
This JDS Uniphase Corporation (the "Company") Change of Control Benefits Plan (the "Plan") was established effective as of September 1, 2008 and amended on August 10, 2011.
(a) . The purpose of the Plan is to describe eligibility for certain benefits for Eligible Executives (as defined below) whose employment is terminated as a result of, or following, a Change of Control (as defined below).
Purpose
(b) . This Plan supersedes and replaces any prior policies or practices of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies that relate to severance payments or vesting acceleration with respect to stock options, restricted stock units, performance units, or any other securities or similar incentives of the Company upon a change of control (as defined in any such agreements or arrangements) of Company with respect to Eligible Executives. Any such policies or procedures, to the extent they relate to severance payments or vesting acceleration with respect to options of Company upon a change of control, are hereby rescinded and shall no longer have any force or effect to the extent such policies or procedures apply to Eligible Executives. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Plan is subordinated to any individual written (i) severance benefit agreement, (ii) change of control severance agreement, or (iii) employment agreement that provides for severance benefits in existence as of the date hereof between any Eligible Executive and the Company.
Effect
2. . The following capitalized terms used in this Plan shall have the following meanings:
Definition of Terms
(a) . "Cause" shall mean (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of an Eligible Executive's duties to Company; (ii) a material and willful violation of any federal or state law by an Eligible Executive that if made public would injure the business or reputation of Company; (iii) refusal or willful failure by an Eligible Executive to comply with any specific lawful direction or order of Company or the material policies and procedures of Company including but not limited to the JDS Uniphase Corporation Code of Business Conduct and the Inside Information and Securities Transactions policy as well as any obligations concerning proprietary rights and confidential information of the Company; (iv) conviction (including a plea of ) of an Eligible Executive of a felony, or of a misdemeanor that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's goodwill if such Eligible Executive were to be retained as an employee of the Company; or (v) substantial and continuing willful refusal by an Eligible Executive to perform duties ordinarily performed by an employee in the same position and having similar duties as such Eligible Executive; in each case as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors of Company or the successor to the Company (the "Board of Directors").
Cause
nolo contendere
 
(b) . "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of one or more of the following with respect to the Company:
Change of Control
(i) the acquisition by any person (or related group of persons), whether by tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company's stockholders, open market purchases or any other transaction or series of transactions, of stock of the Company that, together with stock of the Company held by such person or group, constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value or total voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of the members of the Company's Board of Directors;
(ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving entity, except for a transaction in which both (A) securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the surviving entity are beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 19340), directly or indirectly, immediately after such merger or consolidation by persons who beneficially owned common stock immediately prior to such merger or consolidation and (B) the members of the Board of Directors immediately prior to the transaction (the "Existing Board") constitute a majority of the Board of Directors immediately after such merger or consolidation;
(iii) any reverse merger in which the Company is the surviving entity but in which either (A) persons who beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, Common Stock immediately prior to such reverse merger do not retain immediately after such reverse merger direct or indirect beneficial ownership of securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities or (B) the members of the Existing Board do not constitute a majority of the Board of Directors immediately after such reverse merger; or
(iv) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (other than a sale, transfer or other disposition to one or more subsidiaries of the Company).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any amount constituting nonqualified deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (including any applicable final, proposed or temporary regulations and other administrative guidance promulgated thereunder) would become payable under this Plan by reason of a Change of Control, such amount shall become payable only if the event constituting a Change of Control would also constitute a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A.
(c) . "Disability" shall mean a mental or physical disability, illness or injury, evidenced by medical reports from a duly qualified medical practitioner, which renders an Eligible Executive unable to perform any one or more of the essential duties of his or her position after the provision of reasonable accommodation, if applicable, for a period of greater than ninety (90) days within a one year period. "Disabled" has a corresponding meaning.
Disability
 
(d) "Eligible Executives" shall mean individuals employed by the Company and its subsidiaries in the United States and on a United States payroll at the level of Senior Vice President (E200) or above, who either (i) hold one or more of the following positions or their functional equivalents: Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Information Officer, the senior executive responsible for Human Resources, and each senior executive responsible for one or more Company reporting segment(s) (as determined with reference to the Company's financial statements, and including such senior executives responsible for business units reported under "All Other", if any), or (ii) are designated in writing by the Chief Executive Officer as being an Eligible Executive, subject to subsequent review and ratification by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at its discretion.
(e) . "Good Reason" shall mean an Eligible Executive's resignation from Company within thirty (30) days following the occurrence of any of the following events with respect to such Eligible Executive:
Good Reason
(i) without Eligible Executive's express written consent, the significant reduction of Eligible Executive's duties, authority, responsibilities, job title or reporting relationships relative to Eligible Executive's duties, authority, responsibilities, job title, or reporting relationships as in effect immediately prior to such reduction, or the assignment to Eligible Executive of such reduced duties, authority, responsibilities, job title, or reporting relationships, which reduction or assigned reduction remains in effect five (5) business days after written notice by the Eligible Executive to the Chief Executive Officer of such conditions; however, the occurrence of a Change of Control shall not, in and of itself, constitute a material adverse change in Eligible Executive's position, duties or responsibilities;
(ii) a reduction by Company in the base salary of Eligible Executive as in effect immediately prior to such reduction;
(iii) a material reduction by Company in the kind or level of employee benefits, including bonuses, to which Eligible Executive was entitled immediately prior to such reduction with the result that Eligible Executive's overall benefits package is significantly reduced;
(iv) the relocation of Eligible Executive's principal work location to a facility or a location more than fifty (50) miles from Eligible Executive's then present principal work location, without Eligible Executive's express written consent; or
(v) the failure of Company to obtain agreement from any successor contemplated in Section 6 below to provide the benefits provided for in this Plan, as it exists as the time of succession.
(f) . "Termination Date" shall mean:
Termination Date
(i) if an Eligible Executive's employment is terminated by Company for Disability, the date designated by Company as the last day of such Eligible Executive's employment;
 
(ii) if an Eligible Executive dies, the date of death;
(iii) if an Eligible Executive's employment is terminated by Company for any other reason, the date designated by Company as the last day of such Eligible Executive's employment; or
(iv) if an Eligible Executive's employment is terminated by such Eligible Executive, the date designated by Company as the effective date of resignation.
3. . Eligible Executives will receive the benefits described herein under the following circumstances:
Eligibility for Severance and Other Benefits
(a) . If an Eligible Executive's employment terminates either by Company without Cause or by such Eligible Executive for Good Reason at any time during the period commencing upon a Change of Control and ending twelve (12) months following a Change of Control, then, conditioned upon the Eligible Executive's execution and delivery of an effective release of claims against Company and related parties that releases Company and such parties from any claims whatsoever arising from or related to the Eligible Executive's employment relationship with Company including the termination of that relationship in a form reasonably acceptable to the Company, the Eligible Executive will receive the following:
Termination in Connection with a Change of Control
(i) Eligible Executive's right, title and entitlement to any and all unvested stock options, restricted stock units, performance units, or any other securities or similar incentives that have been granted or issued to Eligible Executive as of the Termination Date (A) that are subject to time-based vesting conditions shall automatically be accelerated in full so as to become immediately and completely vested, and (B) that are subject to performance-based vesting conditions with a "target" achievement level shall automatically be accelerated at 100% of such "target" achievement level so as to become immediately and completely vested. In all other respects, Eligible Executive's securities shall continue to be subject to the terms of the applicable equity incentive plan notice of grant and grant agreement.
(ii) a lump sum cash payment equal to eighteen (18) months' salary at the Eligible Executive's base salary rate as of the Termination Date (without taking into account any reduction in base salary that could trigger Eligible Executive's resignation for Good Reason), less applicable withholding taxes or other withholding obligations of Company and less any amounts to which Eligible Executive is otherwise entitled under any statutory or Company long or short term disability plan; and
(iii) if Eligible Executive elects benefits continuation under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ("COBRA") following termination of employment, payment of the full cost of such benefits (either directly to Eligible Executive or to the appropriate carrier or administrator at the Company's election) for the lesser of (a) twelve (12) months or (b) until such time as Eligible Executive becomes eligible for reasonably comparable health care benefits from a subsequent employer.
 
(b) . If an Eligible Executive's employment terminates by reason of voluntary resignation (which is not for Good Reason), or if an Eligible Executive is terminated for Cause, then such Eligible Executive shall not be entitled to receive any benefits under Section 3(a) of this Plan.
Voluntary Resignation; Termination for Cause
(c) If an Eligible Executive suffers from a Disability, Company may terminate such Eligible Executive's employment to the extent permitted by law and, if such termination occurs within twelve (12) months following a Change of Control, Company will then pay to that Eligible Executive the compensation set forth in Section 3(a) of this Plan.
Disability.
(d) . If an Eligible Executive's employment is terminated due to the death of such Eligible Executive within twelve (12) months following a Change of Control, then the compensation set forth in Section 3(a) of this Plan will be paid to the former Eligible Executive's estate.
Death
(e) . Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this Plan, to the extent the Company determines in good faith that (a) one or more of the payments or benefits received or to be received by an Eligible Executive pursuant to this Plan in connection with such Eligible Executive's termination of employment would constitute deferred compensation subject to the rules of Section 409A, and (b) that the Eligible Executive is a "specified employee" under Section 409A, then only to the extent required to avoid the Eligible Executive's incurrence of any additional tax or interest under Section 409A of the Code, such payment or benefit will be delayed until the date which is six (6) months after the Eligible Executive's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A. The Company will revise any applicable provisions of this Plan to maintain to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable Plan provisions without violating the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, if the Company deems such revisions necessary or advisable pursuant to guidance under Section 409A to avoid the incurrence of any such interest and penalties. Such revisions shall not result in a reduction of the aggregate amount of payments or benefits under this Plan.
Application of Section 409A
(f) . In the event an Eligible Executive's employment terminates for any reason or no reason, whether on account of Disability, death, or otherwise, either prior to a Change of Control or after the twelve (12) month period following a Change of Control, then such Eligible Executive shall not be entitled to receive severance or any other benefits under Section 3(a) of this Plan.
Termination Not in Connection With a Change of Control
(g) . If an Eligible Executive is entitled to cash payments, accelerated vesting of stock options or restricted stock grants, or any other benefits from Company following the termination of such Eligible Executive's employment after a Change of Control under any other agreement, plan, policy or law, then the benefits received by that Eligible Executive under this Plan shall be reduced by the benefits received by Eligible Executive from Company under such other plans, programs, arrangements, agreements or requirements. If an Eligible Executive is indebted to Company at the time of a termination that would give rise to severance benefits under Section 3(a), the Company reserves the right to offset such severance payment under the Plan by the amount of such indebtedness.
Coordination with Other Change of Control Benefits, Severance Benefits or Debts
 
4. . Subject only to any individual written agreement between the Company and an Eligible Executive to the contrary, each Eligible Executive's employment is and shall continue to be at-will, as defined under applicable law. If an Eligible Executive's employment terminates for any reason other than as specified in Section 3, such Eligible Executive shall not be entitled to any benefits, damages, awards or compensation under this Plan.
At-Will Employment
5. . The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under the Plan such federal, state and local taxes as may be required to be withheld. In the event that any payment or other benefits provided for in this Plan or otherwise payable to an Eligible Executive (i) constitute "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and (ii) become subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (or any corresponding provisions of state tax law), then, notwithstanding the other provisions of this Plan, such Eligible Executive's benefits under Section 3 will not exceed the amount which produces the greatest after-tax benefit to the Eligible Executive. For purposes of the foregoing, the greatest after-tax benefit will be determined within thirty (30) days after the Termination Date, by the Eligible Executive in his/her sole discretion. If no such determination is made by the Eligible Executive within thirty (30) days of the Termination Date, then the Company will pay the benefits as provided in Section 3.
Tax Matters
6. . The Company shall require that any successor to Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of Company's business and/or assets agree to perform in accordance with this Plan in the same manner and to the same extent as Company would be required to perform such obligations in the absence of a succession.
Company's Successors
7. . Eligible Executives shall not be entitled to any payments, compensation, benefits or other consideration from the Company, apart from those identified in Section 3, on account of a termination following a Change of Control.
Exclusive Benefits
8. . If any provision of this Plan, or the application thereof to any person, place or circumstance, shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, unenforceable or void, the remainder of this Plan and such provisions as applied to other persons, places and circumstances shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability, Enforcement
9. .
General
(a) . Notices and all other communications contemplated by this Plan shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given either (i) when personally delivered or sent by facsimile or (ii) five (5) days after being mailed by U.S. registered or certified mail, return receipt requested and postage prepaid. In the case of an Eligible Executive, mailed notices shall be addressed to him or her at the home address or facsimile number which he or she most recently communicated to Company in writing. In the case of Company, mailed notices or notices sent by facsimile shall be addressed to its corporate headquarters, and all notices shall be directed to the attention of its General Counsel or Chief Financial Officer.
Notice
 
(b) Prior to a Change of Control, the Company reserves the right to amend or terminate this Plan upon written notice to Eligible Executives. Upon a Change of Control, this Plan will become non-modifiable without the consent of the affected Eligible Executive(s).
Amendment.
(c) The Plan shall terminate on December 31, 2014 (the "Plan Termination Date"), provided that the Plan shall not terminate, and shall continue in full force and effect and not shall not be terminable by any action of the Company or a successor in interest to the Company, in the event of the occurrence of a Change of Control on or before the Plan Termination Date.
Plan Termination.
10. . To record the adoption of the Plan as set forth herein, effective as of September 1, 2008, JDS Uniphase Corporation has caused its duly authorized officer to execute the same.
Execution
 
 

Exhibit 10.9
This Indemnification Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of this      day of              2011, by and between JDS Uniphase Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and                      ("Indemnitee").
WHEREAS, the Company and Indemnitee recognize the difficulty in obtaining directors and officers liability insurance that fully and adequately covers directors and officers for their acts and omissions on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries;
WHEREAS, the Company and Indemnitee further recognize the substantial increase in corporate litigation in general, subjecting officers and directors to expensive litigation risks that may not be fully covered by liability insurance;
WHEREAS, Indemnitee does not regard the current protection available as adequate under the present circumstances, and Indemnitee and other officers and directors of the Company may not be willing to continue to serve as officers and directors without additional protection; and
WHEREAS, the Company desires to attract and retain the services of highly qualified individuals, such as Indemnitee, to serve as officers and directors of the Company and to indemnify its officers and directors so as to provide them with the maximum protection permitted by law.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and Indemnitee hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. . Indemnitee hereby agrees to serve or continue to serve, at the will of the Company, as a director, officer or key employee of the Company, for as long as Indemnitee is duly elected or appointed, as the case may be, or until Indemnitee tenders his or her resignation or is removed. For avoidance of doubt, the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall continue to the extent provided for in this Agreement, notwithstanding that Indemnitee may have ceased to be a director, officer or key employee of the Company at the time the Proceeding commenced.
Services By Indemnitee
Section 2. .
Indemnification
(a) . In connection with any Proceeding, the Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as in effect on the date hereof or as may be amended from time to time to increase the scope of such permitted indemnification, indemnify Indemnitee against any and all Expenses and Liabilities, in either case, actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf by reason of Indemnitee's Corporate Status unless the Company shall establish, in accordance with the procedures described in Section 3 of this Agreement, that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
General Indemnification
(b) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his or her Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party, he or she shall be indemnified against all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee or on his or her behalf in connection therewith.
Witness Expenses
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, except as provided in Section 11 of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any Proceeding, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith.
Mandatory Indemnification.
Section 3. .
Advancement of Expenses; Indemnification Procedure
(a) . The Company shall advance all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding referenced in Section 2(a) of this Agreement (but not amounts actually paid in settlement of any such Proceeding). The advances to be made hereunder shall be paid by the Company to Indemnitee within 10 business days following delivery of a written request therefor by Indemnitee to the Company provided that such request is accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of Indemnitee to repay the amount received pursuant to this Section 3(a) if it is ultimately determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification of such Expenses. Advances shall be unsecured and interest free. Advances shall be made without regard to Indemnitee's ability to repay such amounts and without regard to Indemnitee's ultimate entitlement to indemnification under the other provisions of this Agreement. Advances shall include any and all Expenses incurred pursuing an action to enforce this right of advancement, including Expenses incurred preparing and forwarding statements to the Company to support the advances claimed.
Advancement of Expenses
(b) . Indemnitee shall give the Company notice in writing as soon as practicable of any Proceeding in respect of which Indemnitee intends to seek indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder. Notice to the Company shall be directed to the General Counsel of the Company at the address shown in Section 16(a) of this Agreement (or such other address as the Company shall designate in writing to Indemnitee). The omission by Indemnitee to so notify the Company will not relieve the Company from any liability that it may have to Indemnitee hereunder or otherwise.
Notice by Indemnitee
(c) .
Determination of Entitlement
(i) Where there has been a written notice by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to Section 3(b), then as soon as is reasonably practicable (but in any event not later than 30 days) after final disposition of the relevant Proceeding, the Company shall make a determination, if and in the manner required by applicable law, with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement thereto; provided, however, that, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the determination shall be made by an Independent Counsel (selected pursuant to Section 3(c)(ii)) in a written opinion to the Company's Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee. If it is so determined that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) business days after such determination. Indemnitee shall reasonably cooperate with the person, persons or entity making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person, persons or entity upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information that is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and that is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification).
(ii) If entitlement to indemnification is to be determined by an Independent Counsel after a Change in Control pursuant to Section 3(c)(i), such Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld).
(iii) The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of any Independent Counsel serving under this Agreement.
(d) .
Presumptions and Burdens of Proof
(i) In making any determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the person, persons or entity making such determination shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, and the Company shall have, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making of any determination contrary to that presumption. Neither the failure of the person, persons or entity to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the person, persons or entity that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(ii) The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner that he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful.
(iii) For purposes of any determination of good faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee's action is in good faith reliance on the records or books of account of any Enterprise, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the officers of such Enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for such Enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to such Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected by such Enterprise. The provisions of this Section 3(d)(iii) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which Indemnitee may be deemed or found to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement.
(e) . If, at the time of the receipt of a notice of a Proceeding pursuant to Section 3(b) of this Agreement, the Company has director and officer liability insurance in effect, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such Proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies. Thereafter, the Company shall take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such Proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policies.
Notice to Insurers
(f) . In the event of any payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who will execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company to effectively bring suit to enforce such rights. The Company will pay or reimburse all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such subrogation.
Subrogation
(g) .
Defense of Claims; Selection of Counsel
(i) The Company shall not settle any action, claim, or Proceeding (in whole or in part) that would impose any Expense, judgment, fine, penalty or limitation on Indemnitee, without Indemnitee's prior written consent; provided, however, that, with respect to settlements requiring solely the payment of money either by the Company or by Indemnitee for which the Company is obligated to reimburse Indemnitee promptly and completely, in either case without recourse to Indemnitee, no such consent of Indemnitee shall be required. Indemnitee shall not settle any action, claim or Proceeding (in whole or in part) that would impose any Expense, judgment, fine, penalty or limitation on the Company without the Company's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
(ii) In the event the Company shall be obligated under Section 3(a) of this Agreement to pay the Expenses of any Proceeding against Indemnitee, the Company, if appropriate, shall be entitled to assume the defense of such proceeding, with counsel approved by Indemnitee, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, upon the delivery to Indemnitee of written notice of its election so to do. After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Company will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any fees subsequently incurred by Indemnitee with respect to the same Proceeding, provided that (i) Indemnitee shall have the right to employ Indemnitee's own counsel in any such Proceeding at Indemnitee's expense; and (ii) if (A) the employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been previously authorized by the Company (or, after a Change in Control, by Independent Counsel), (B) Indemnitee shall have concluded in good faith that there may be a conflict of interest between the Company and Indemnitee or between Indemnitee and any other persons represented by the same counsel, in the conduct of any such defense, or (C) the Company, in fact, shall not have employed counsel to assume the defense of such Proceeding, then the reasonable fees and expenses of Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the expense of the Company.
Section 4. .
Remedies of Indemnitee
(a) In the event of any dispute between Indemnitee and the Company hereunder as to entitlement to indemnification, contribution or advancement of Expenses, then Indemnitee shall be entitled to enforce Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement by commencing litigation in any court in the States of California or Delaware having subject matter jurisdiction threof. The Company hereby consents to service of process and to appear in any such proceeding.
(b) If Indemnitee commences a judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to this Section 4, Indemnitee shall not be required to reimburse the Company for any advances pursuant to Section 3(a) until a final determination is made with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification (as to which all rights of appeal have been exhausted or lapsed).
(c) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 3(c) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 4, absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with such determination of Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
(d) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 4 that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding or enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.
(e) The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law against all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any judicial proceeding or arbitration brought by Indemnitee for (i) indemnification or advances of Expenses by the Company (or otherwise for the enforcement, interpretation or defense of his or her rights) under this Agreement or any other agreement, including any other indemnification, contribution or advancement agreement, or any provision of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect or (ii) recovery or advances under any directors and officers liability insurance policy maintained by the Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, contribution,
advancement or insurance recovery, as the case may be; provided, however, that this Section 4(e) shall not apply if, as part of such judicial proceeding or arbitration, the court of competent jurisdiction or the arbitrator, as the case may be, determines that the material assertions made by Indemnitee as a basis for such judicial proceeding or arbitration were not made in good faith or were frivolous.
Section 5. .
Additional Indemnification Rights; Nonexclusivity
(a) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company hereby agrees to indemnify the Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law, notwithstanding that such indemnification is not specifically authorized by the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, the Company's Bylaws or by statute. In the event of any change, after the date of this Agreement, in any applicable law, statute or rule that expands the right of a Delaware corporation to indemnify a member of its or a Subsidiary's Board of Directors or an officer, such changes shall be, within the purview of Indemnitee's rights and the Company's obligations, under this Agreement. In the event of any change in any applicable law, statute or rule that narrows the right of a Delaware corporation to indemnify a member of the Board of Directors or an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary, such changes, to the extent not otherwise required by such law, statute or rule to be applied to this Agreement, shall have no effect on this Agreement or the parties' rights and obligations hereunder.
Scope
ipso facto,
(b) . The rights of indemnification, contribution and advancement of Expenses as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any rights to which Indemnitee may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, its Bylaws, any agreement, any vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, the Delaware General Corporation Law, or otherwise, both as to action in Indemnitee's official capacity and as to action or inaction in another capacity while holding such office; provided, however, that this Agreement shall supersede any prior indemnification agreement between the Company and Indemnitee. The indemnification provided under this Agreement shall continue as to Indemnitee for any action taken or not taken while serving in an indemnified capacity even though Indemnitee may have ceased to serve in such capacity at the time any covered Proceeding commenced.
Nonexclusivity
Section 6. . If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the Expenses and Liabilities actually or reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in any Proceeding, but not, however, for the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion of such Expenses and Liabilities to which Indemnitee is entitled.
Partial Indemnification
Section 7. . Both the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that, in certain instances, Federal law or applicable public policy may prohibit the Company from indemnifying its directors and officers under this Agreement or otherwise. Indemnitee understands and acknowledges that the Company has undertaken or may be required in the future in certain circumstances to undertake with the Securities and Exchange Commission to submit the question of indemnification to a court for a determination of the Company's right under public policy to indemnify Indemnitee.
Mutual Acknowledgment
Section 8. . The Company, from time to time, shall make the good faith determination whether or not it is practicable for the Company to obtain and maintain a policy or policies of insurance with reputable insurance companies providing the officers and directors of the Company with coverage for losses from wrongful acts or to ensure the Company's performance of its indemnification obligations under this Agreement. Among other considerations, the Company will weigh the costs of obtaining such insurance coverage against the protection afforded by such coverage. In all policies of directors and officers liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be named as an insured in such a manner as to provide Indemnitee the same rights and benefits as are accorded to the most favorably insured of the Company's directors, if Indemnitee is a director; or of the Company's officers, if
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance
Indemnitee is not a director of the Company but is an officer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall have no obligation to obtain or maintain such insurance if the Company determines in good faith that such insurance is not reasonably available, if the premium costs for such insurance are disproportionate to the amount of coverage provided, if the coverage provided by such insurance is limited by exclusions so as to provide an insufficient benefit, or if Indemnitee is covered by similar insurance maintained by a Subsidiary or parent of the Company.
Section 9. . To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount incurred by Indemnitee, whether for Liabilities and/or for Expenses, in connection with any Proceeding relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (1) the relative benefits received by the Company and Indemnitee as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving rise to such Proceeding; and (2) the relative fault of the Company (and its directors, officers, employees and agents) and Indemnitee in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s).
Contribution
Section 10. . Nothing in this Agreement is intended to require or shall be construed as requiring the Company to do or fail to do any act in violation of applicable law. The Company's inability, pursuant to court order, to perform its obligations under this Agreement shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable as provided in this Section 10. If this Agreement or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Agreement that shall not have been invalidated, and the balance of this Agreement not so invalidated shall be enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Severability
Section 11. . Any other provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement:
Exceptions
(a) . To indemnify Indemnitee for any acts or omissions or transactions from which a director, officer, employee or agent may not be relieved of liability under applicable law; or
Excluded Acts
(b) . To indemnify or advance Expenses to Indemnitee with respect to any Proceeding initiated or brought voluntarily by Indemnitee and not by way of defense, except with respect to Proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under this Agreement or any other statute or law, but such indemnification or advancement of Expenses may be provided by the Company in specific cases if the Company's Board of Directors (or, after a Change in Control has occurred, Independent Counsel) has approved the initiation or bringing of such Proceeding; or
Claims Initiated by Indemnitee
(c) . To indemnify Indemnitee for any Expenses incurred by the Indemnitee with respect to any Proceeding instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the material assertions made by the Indemnitee in such Proceeding were not made in good faith or were frivolous; or
Lack of Good Faith
(d) . To indemnify Indemnitee for Expenses or Liabilities that have been paid directly to Indemnitee by an insurance carrier under a policy of directors and officers liability insurance maintained by the Company; or
Insured Claims
(e) . To indemnify Indemnitee for Expenses and the payment of profits arising from the purchase and sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or any similar successor statute; or
Claims under Section 16(b)
(f) . To indemnify Indemnitee for any reimbursement of the Company by Indemnitee of any bonus or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation or of any profits realized by Indemnitee from the sale of securities of the Company, as required in each case under the Exchange Act (including any such reimbursements that (i) arise from an accounting restatement of the Company pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the payment to the Company of profits arising from the purchase and sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (ii) arise pursuant to regulations or policies adopted in compliance with Section 954 of the Investor Protection and Securities Reform Act of 2010); or
Required Reimbursement
(g) To indemnify Indemnitee for Expenses or Liabilities if the Company was not given a reasonable time and opportunity, at its expense, to participate in the defense of such action, unless such participation was barred by this Agreement.
Company Right to Participate in Defense.
Section 12. . This Agreement shall be effective as of the date set forth on the first page and shall apply to acts or omissions of Indemnitee which occurred prior to such date if Indemnitee was serving in any Corporate Status at the time such act or omission occurred.
Effectiveness of Agreement
Section 13. .
Construction of Certain Phrases
(a) As used in this Agreement:
"" means any one of the following circumstances occurring after the date hereof: (i) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) shall have become, without prior approval of the Company's Board of Directors by approval of at least a majority of the Continuing Directors, the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 40% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities (provided that, for purposes of this clause (i), the term "person" shall exclude (x) the Company, (y) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, and (z) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company); (ii) there occurs a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 51% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and with the power to elect at least a majority of the board of directors or other governing body of such surviving entity; (iii) all or substantially all the assets of the Company are sold or disposed of in a transaction or series of related transactions; (iv) the approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation of the Company; or (v) the Continuing Directors cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors.
Change in Control
"" means (i) each director on the Company's Board of Directors on the date hereof or (ii) any new director whose election or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors on the date hereof or whose election or nomination was so approved.
Continuing Director
"" means the status of a person who is or was a director, officer, trustee, general partner, managing member, fiduciary, board of directors' committee member, employee or agent of the Company or of any other Enterprise.
Corporate Status
"" means the Company, any Subsidiary and any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, trustee, general partner, managing member, fiduciary, board of directors' committee member, employee or agent.
Enterprise
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means all direct and indirect costs (including without limitation attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcripts, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses) reasonably and actually incurred in connection with (i) prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, being or preparing to be a witness in, or otherwise participating in, a Proceeding or (ii) establishing or enforcing a right to indemnification under this Agreement, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, applicable law or otherwise. Expenses also shall include Expenses incurred in connection with any appeal resulting from any Proceeding, including the premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bond, supersedeas bond, or other appeal bond or its equivalent. For the avoidance of doubt, however, Expenses shall not include any Liabilities.
Expenses
"" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporate law and neither currently is, nor in the five years prior to its selection or appointment has been, retained to represent (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than with respect to matters concerning Indemnitee under this Agreement or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements), or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.
Independent Counsel
"" means any losses or liabilities, including without limitation any judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes and penalties, penalties and amounts paid in settlement, arising out of or in connection with any Proceeding (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any such judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes and penalties, penalties or amounts paid in settlement).
Liabilities
"" means any threatened, pending or completed action, derivative action, suit, claim, counterclaim, cross claim, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, whether civil (including intentional and unintentional tort claims), criminal, administrative or investigative, including any appeal therefrom, and whether instituted by or on behalf of the Company or any other party, or any inquiry or investigation that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any such action, suit or other proceeding hereinabove listed in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a party, potential party, non-party witness or otherwise by reason of any Corporate Status of Indemnitee, or by reason of any action taken (or failure to act) by him or her or of any action (or failure to act) on his or her part while serving in any Corporate Status.
Proceeding
(b) For purposes of this Agreement:
References to "Company" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger that, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, employees or agents, so that, if Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director,
officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, Indemnitee shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Agreement with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as Indemnitee would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
References to "Subsidiary" shall include a corporation, company or other entity:
(i) 50% or more of whose outstanding shares or securities (representing the right to vote for the election of directors or other managing authority) are, or
(ii) that does not have outstanding shares or securities (as may be the case in a partnership, joint venture or unincorporated association), but 50% or more of whose ownership interest representing the right to make decisions for such other entity is,
now or hereafter, owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company, or one or more Subsidiaries.
References to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on Indemnitee with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company that imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries.
Section 14. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original.
Counterparts
Section 15. . This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and Indemnitee's estate, heirs, legal representatives and assigns. The Company shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
Successors and Assigns
Section 16. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly given (i) if delivered by hand or recognized courier and receipted for by the party addressee, on the date of such receipt, (ii) if mailed by domestic certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date postmarked, or (iii) if sent by confirmed facsimile, on the date sent. Notices shall be addressed as follows:
Notice
(a) if to the Company:
JDS Uniphase Corporation
430 North McCarthy Blvd.
Milpitas, California 95035
Attention: General Counsel;
(b) if to Indemnitee, to the address of Indemnitee set forth under Indemnitee's signature below; or to such other address or attention of such other person as any party shall advise the other parties in writing.
Section 18. . This Agreement shall be governed by and its provisions construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware as applied to contracts made and to be performed in such State without giving effect to its principals of conflicts of laws.
Choice of Law
Section 19. . No supplement, modification, or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding unless in the form of a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of the waiver is sought. Except as specifically provided herein, no failure to exercise or any delay in exercising any right or remedy hereunder shall constitute a waiver thereof.
Amendments
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 


