FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20020910094536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 10, 2002 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) State of New Jersey 001-09120 22-2625848 - ----------------------- ----------- ------------------- (State of incorporation (Commission (I.R.S. Employer or organization) File Number) Identification No.) 80 Park Plaza, T-4 Newark, New Jersey 07102 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (973) 430-7000 http://www.pseg.com (Registrant's internet address)
ITEM 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-86372 and 333-86372-01) of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated ("PSEG"). Exhibit Number Description - ------- ----------- 4.1 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2002, between PSEG and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Trustee. 4.2 Form of Senior Deferrable Note (included in Exhibit 4.1). 4.3 Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of PSEG Funding Trust I, dated as of September 10, 2002. 4.4 Form of Preferred Trust Security, which is a component of the Corporate Units of PSEG (included in Exhibit 4.3). 4.5 Preferred Trust Securities Guarantee Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, between PSEG, as Guarantor and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee. 4.6 Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, between PSEG and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent. 4.7 Form of Corporate Units Certificate (included in Exhibit 4.6). 4.8 Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, among PSEG, The Bank of the New York, as Collateral Agent, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent. 4.9 Remarketing Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, among PSEG, PSEG Funding Trust I, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Remarketing Agent. 5.1 Opinion of James T. Foran. 5.2 Opinion of Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A. 5.3 Opinion of Ballard Spahr Andrews and Ingersoll LLP.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED By: /s/ Morton A. Plawner ------------------------------- Name: Morton A. Plawner Title: Treasurer Date: September 10, 2002

Exhibit 4.1 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED AND WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, Trustee ---------- First Supplemental Indenture Dated as of September 10, 2002 To Indenture Dated as of November 1, 1998 ---------- Senior Deferrable Notes due 2007
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of September 10, 2002 (this "First Supplemental Indenture"), between PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), having its principal office at 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101, and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (formerly known as First Union National Bank), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), under the Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1998, between the Company and the Trustee (the "Indenture"). WHEREAS, the Company has executed and delivered the Indenture to the Trustee to provide for the issuance from time to time of its senior debt securities evidencing its unsecured unsubordinated indebtedness (the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Indenture. WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a series of Securities, to be known as its "Senior Deferrable Notes due 2007" (herein called the "Notes"), in this First Supplemental Indenture. WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and enforceable agreement of the Company, and to make the Notes, when executed, authenticated and delivered by the Company, the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company have been done and the execution and delivery of the First Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all material respects. WHEREAS, PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), will issue $460,000,000 in aggregate liquidation amount of its preferred securities (the "Preferred Securities") and, in connection therewith, the Company has agreed to purchase $14,226,850 in aggregate liquidation amount of the Trust's common securities (the "Common Securities"), each representing an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust, and the Trust proposes to invest the proceeds from such issuances in $474,226,850 aggregate principal amount of the Notes. NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the purchase of the Notes by the Trust, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of the Trust and any other future holders of the Notes (the "Holders"), as follows: ARTICLE ONE DEFINITIONS Section 101. Definition of Terms. Unless the context otherwise requires: (a) any term defined anywhere in this First Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout; (b) any term not defined herein that is defined in the Indenture has the same meaning when used in this First Supplemental Indenture; 1
(c) any term not defined herein or in the Indenture that is defined in Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Declaration"), of the Trust has the same meaning when used in this First Supplemental Indenture; (d) the term "Business Day," as used in the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture with respect to the Notes, means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday, or any other day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are permitted or required by any applicable law to close. ARTICLE TWO TERMS AND ISSUANCE OF THE NOTES Section 201. Issue of Notes. A series of Securities which shall be designated the "Senior Deferrable Notes due 2007" shall be executed, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the provisions of, and shall in all respects be subject to, the terms, conditions and covenants of the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture (including the forms of Notes set forth as Exhibits A, B and C hereto). The Notes will constitute unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company and will rank equally with all other existing or future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company. The aggregate principal amount of Notes of the series created hereby which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall not, except as permitted by the provisions of the Indenture, exceed $474,226,850. The Notes shall be initially issued in certificated form to the Trust (the "Initial Notes") and shall be substantially in the Form of Exhibit A hereto. The Notes will be issued in denominations of $50 and integral multiples thereof. The terms of such Notes are herein incorporated by reference and made part of this First Supplemental Indenture. Section 202. Maturity. Unless a Tax Event Redemption occurs or the Notes are repurchased by the Company at the Holders' option following a Failed Secondary Remarketing as described in Section 205(b), the entire principal amount of the Notes will mature and become due and payable, together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, on November 16, 2007 (the "Maturity Date"). Section 203. Liquidation or Dissolution of Trust. In the event of an involuntary or voluntary liquidation and dissolution of the Trust (other than in connection with a Tax Event Redemption): (a) With respect to Separate Preferred Securities held in book-entry form, Initial Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of such Separate Preferred Securities may be presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee, along with written certification by the Property Trustee that the Separate Preferred Securities are held in book-entry form, in exchange for a global Security (a "Global Note") in the form of Exhibit B in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate amount of Initial Notes so presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee. The securities depositary for the Global Note will be The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"). The Global Note will be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or a custodian appointed by the Depositary for crediting to the accounts of its participants pursuant to the instructions of the Property Trustee. The Company, upon any such presentation, shall 2
execute a Global Note in such aggregate principal amount and deliver the same to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture. Payments on the Notes issued as a Global Note will be made to the Depositary or its nominee. (b) With respect to Pledged Preferred Securities, Initial Notes may be presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee, along with written identification by the Property Trustee of the certificate or certificates representing such Pledged Preferred Securities and of the liquidation amount thereof, in exchange for a certificated Security (a "Certificated Note") in the form of Exhibit C representing a Pledged Note (as such term is defined in the Pledge Agreement) in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate amount of Initial Notes so presented to the Trustee by the Property Trustee. The Pledged Notes shall be registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent as attorney in fact for the holders of the Corporate Units and delivered by the Trustee to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account (as such term is defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) pursuant to the instructions of the Property Trustee. The Company, upon any such presentation, shall execute a Certificated Note in such aggregate principal amount and deliver the same to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture. (c) Each such Global Note and Pledged Note shall represent such number of the Outstanding Notes as shall be from time to time endorsed thereon, which numbers may be increased or decreased, as applicable, to reflect, in connection with the creation of Treasury Units and the recreation of Corporate Units, transfers between Pledged Notes and Separate Notes (as such term is defined in the Pledge Agreement). Any such increase or decrease in the aggregate number of Notes represented by (i) a Pledged Note shall be made by the Collateral Agent and (ii) a Global Note shall be made by the Trustee, as custodian of the Global Notes, in each case upon the instructions of the Collateral Agent given pursuant to Article 4 of the Pledge Agreement. Section 204. Interest. (a) Subject to Section 204(c) below, each Note will bear interest at the rate of 6.25% per annum from September 10, 2002, payable quarterly in arrears on February 16, May 16, August 16 and November 16 of each year, commencing November 16, 2002; provided that, following the Reset Effective Date, interest shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each May 16 and November 16, commencing November 16, 2005, in the event that the Notes are successfully remarketed on the Initial Remarketing Date, or May 16, 2006, in the event that the Notes are successfully remarketed on the Secondary Remarketing Date. If the Reset Effective Date is the Initial Reset Date and such date is not otherwise a scheduled Interest Payment Date, an interest payment shall be payable on the Initial Reset Date equal to the amount of interest accrued on the Notes from the most recent Interest Payment Date to but excluding the Initial Reset Date. In such case, interest payable on the Interest Payment Date next following the Initial Reset Date shall equal the amount of interest accrued from and including the Initial Reset Date to but excluding such Interest Payment Date. 3
Each date on which interest is payable on the Notes in accordance with this Section 204(a) is referred to as an "Interest Payment Date." (b) The Regular Record Dates for the payment of interest on the Notes on any Interest Payment Date shall be (i) as long as the Notes are represented by Initial Notes or Certificated Notes (whether issued pursuant to Section 203(b) or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the Indenture), the fifteenth Business Day prior to each Interest Payment Date or (ii) if the Notes are issued pursuant to Section 203(a) above, the Business Day preceding each Interest Payment Date. (c) The interest rate on the Notes outstanding on and after the Initial Remarketing Date will be reset to the Reset Rate, and interest will accrue at the Reset Rate from and including the Initial Reset Date except in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing. In the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the interest rate on the Notes outstanding on and after the Secondary Remarketing Date will be reset to the Reset Rate, and interest will accrue at the Reset Rate from and including the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, except that in the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, the interest rate on the Notes will not be reset and the scheduled Interest Payment Dates shall remain February 16, May 16, August 16 and November 16. On the applicable Reset Announcement Date, the applicable Reset Spread and the Appropriate Benchmark Treasury or Two-Year Benchmark Treasury, as applicable, will be announced by the Company. On the Business Day immediately following such Reset Announcement Date, the Holders of Notes will be notified of such Reset Spread and Appropriate Benchmark Treasury or Two-Year Benchmark Treasury, as applicable, by the Company. Such notice shall be sufficiently given to such Holders of Notes if published in a newspaper that is published each business day in the English language of general circulation in The City of New York, which is expected to be The Wall Street Journal. (d) Not later than seven calendar days nor more than 15 calendar days immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, as the case may be, the Company will request that the Depositary or its nominee (or any successor Depositary or its nominee) notify the Holders of Notes of the Initial Remarketing or the Secondary Remarketing, as the case may be, and, in the case of a Secondary Remarketing, the procedures to be followed by such holders of Notes wishing to settle the related Purchase Contracts with separate cash on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. (e) The amount of interest payable on the Notes for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next day that is a Business Day (and without interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next calendar year, then such payment will be made on the preceding Business Day. Section 205. Redemption and Repurchase. (a) If a Tax Event occurs and is continuing, the Company may, at its option and upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice to the Holders of the Notes, 4
redeem the Notes in whole (but not in part) at a price per Note equal to the Redemption Amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date (as defined below). If the Company elects to redeem the Notes following the occurrence of a Tax Event, (i) the Company shall certify in writing to the Trustee the occurrence of the Tax Event and the applicable Redemption Amount; (ii) the aggregate Redemption Amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date, shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of redemption (the "Tax Event Redemption Date") by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by each such Holder; (iii) the Company shall appoint a Quotation Agent to assemble (or, in the event of a Tax Event Redemption Date following a successful Remarketing) to ascertain the purchase price of the Treasury Portfolio in consultation with the Company; and (iv) such redemption shall otherwise be in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 of the Indenture. (b) If a Failed Secondary Remarketing has occurred, holders of Notes who hold such Notes following the Purchase Contract Settlement Date will have the right to deliver the Notes to the Company for repurchase on December 1, 2005 (the "Note Repurchase Date"), upon at least three Business Days prior notice, at a price per Note equal to the principal amount of such Notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest (the "Note Put Price"). (c) In order for the Notes to be repurchased on the Note Repurchase Date, the Trustee must receive on or prior to 5:00 p.m. New York City time on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Note Repurchase Date, at its Corporate Trust Office or at an office or agency maintained by the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, the Notes to be repurchased with the form entitled "Option to Elect Repurchase" on the reverse of or otherwise accompanying such Notes duly completed. Any such notice received by the Trustee shall be irrevocable. All questions as to the validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of the Notes for repayment shall be determined by the Company, whose determination shall be final and binding. (d) Payment of the Note Put Price shall be made through the Trustee, subject to the Trustee's receipt of payment from the Company in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, no later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Note Repurchase Date, and to such account as may be designated. Neither the Trustee nor the Company will be required to register or cause to be registered the transfer of any Note for which repayment has been elected. (e) Unless the Company defaults in its obligation to pay the Redemption Amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest including compound interest or the Note Put Price, on and after the Tax Event Redemption Date or the Note Repurchase Date, as the case may be, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes so redeemed. (f) Except as provided in Section 205(a), the Company will have no right to redeem the Notes. (g) The Notes will not be subject to a sinking fund provision. 5
(h) The Company will have no right to satisfy and discharge any of its obligations on the Notes by making, or causing to be made, any deposit of money or Government Obligations provided for by Article Fourteen of the Indenture. Section 206. Events of Default. So long as the Notes are held by the Property Trustee, it shall be an Event of Default with respect to the Notes if the Trust shall have voluntarily or involuntarily dissolved, wound up its business or otherwise terminated its existence except in connection with (i) the distribution of the Notes held by the Property Trustee to the holders of the Preferred Securities and Common Securities in liquidation of their interests in the Trust; (ii) the redemption of all of the outstanding Preferred Securities and Common Securities; or (iii) a consolidation, conversion, amalgamation, merger or other transaction involving the Trust that is permitted under Article IX of the Declaration. Section 207. Extension of Interest Payment Period. (a) The Company shall have the right at any time and from time to time, so long as no Event of Default with respect to the Notes has occurred and is continuing, to defer payments of interest by extending the interest payment period of such Notes for a period not extending beyond the Maturity Date (an "Extension Period"), during which Extension Period no interest shall be due and payable; provided however, upon no less than two Business Days' notice to the Remarketing Agent prior to the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, as the case may be, the Company may elect that payments of interest will not be deferrable after the Reset Effective Date. To the extent permitted by applicable law, interest, the payment of which has been deferred because of the extension of the interest payment period pursuant to this Section 207, will accrue (i) in the event of an Extension Period prior to the Reset Effective Date or in the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, at the rate of 10.25% per annum, and (ii) in the event of an Extension Period, if any, following the Reset Effective Date, at the Reset Rate per annum, in either case until such Deferred Interest is paid. Deferred Interest shall be compounded ("Compounded Interest") (x) quarterly for each quarter of such Extension Period prior to the Reset Effective Date, (y) quarterly for each quarter of such Extension Period prior to November 16, 2007 in the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, or (z) semiannually for each semiannual period of such Extension Period, if any, subsequent to the Reset Effective Date. At the end of such Extension Period, the Company shall pay all interest accrued and unpaid on the Notes and Compounded Interest (together, "Deferred Interest") that shall be payable to the Holders of the Notes in whose names the Notes are registered in the Security Register on the first Regular Record Date after the end of the Extension Period. Prior to the expiration of any Extension Period, the Company may further extend such period, provided that such period together with all such previous and further extensions thereof shall not extend beyond the Maturity Date. Upon termination of any Extension Period and the payment of all Deferred Interest then due, the Company may commence a new Extension Period, provided that such Extension Period, together with all extensions thereof, may not extend beyond the Maturity Date. No interest shall be due and payable during an Extension Period except at the end thereof, but the Company, at its option, may prepay on any Interest Payment Date all or any portion of the interest accrued during the then elapsed portion of an Extension Period. 6
(b) In the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, the Company shall pay all Deferred Interest on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date to the Holders of record as of the applicable Regular Record Date. (c) The Company's deferral of interest payments during an Extension Period shall not constitute an Event of Default pursuant to Section 501(1) of the Indenture. (d) All Deferred Interest shall be deemed paid by the Company upon the occurrence of the Reset Effective Date. Section 208. Notice of Extension. The Company shall give written notice to the Trustee (and the Trustee shall give notice thereof to Holders of Notes) of its election of any Extension Period (or any further extension thereof) at least ten Business Days before the earlier of (i) the date on which interest on the Notes would have been payable except for the election to begin or extend the Extension Period (whether or not an Interest Payment Date), (ii) the date the Trustee is required to give notice to any securities exchange or to Holders of Notes of such date on which interest on the Notes would have been payable, or (iii) the Regular Record Date on which interest on the Notes would have been payable. Section 209. Place of Payment. The Place of Payment will be initially the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee which, at the date hereof, is located at 21 South Street, Morristown, New Jersey 07960. ARTICLE THREE EXPENSES Section 301. Payment of Expenses. In connection with the offering, sale and issuance of the Notes to the Trust in connection with the sale of the Preferred Securities and Common Securities by the Trust, the Company will pay for all costs and expenses relating to the offering, sale and issuance of the Notes, including compensation of the Trustee under the Indenture in accordance with the provisions of Section 606 of the Indenture. ARTICLE FOUR COVENANTS Section 401. Covenants during an Extension Period or in the Event of an Event of Default. During an Extension Period or if an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to: (a) redeem, purchase, acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of its capital stock; (b) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on its capital stock; (c) make any distribution on any trust preferred security that ranks pari passu with the Preferred Securities or pay interest on senior debt with similar deferral provisions to the Notes; or 7
(d) make any payment of principal, interest or premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities issued by the Company that rank subordinate in right of payment to, the Notes or make any guarantee payments with respect to any guarantee by the Company of the debt of any subsidiary of the Company if such guarantee ranks subordinate in right of payment to, the Notes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and any of its subsidiaries may (i) purchase or acquire capital stock of the Company or such subsidiary in connection with the satisfaction by the Company or such subsidiary of its obligations under any employee or director compensation or benefit plans, under its direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan or pursuant to any contract or security outstanding on the first day of any such Extension Period or Event of Default, as the case may be, requiring the Company or such subsidiary to purchase capital stock of the Company or such subsidiary, (ii) reclassify the Company's or such subsidiary's capital stock or exchange or convert one class or series of the Company's or such subsidiary's capital stock for another class or series of the Company's or such subsidiary's capital stock, (iii) purchase fractional interests in shares of the Company's or such subsidiary's capital stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the security being converted or exchanged, (iv) redeem or repurchase any rights pursuant to a rights agreement or (vi) make payments under the Guarantee. Section 402. Additional Covenants Relating to the Trust. As long as the Preferred Securities remain outstanding, the Company will: (a) maintain, directly or indirectly, 100% ownership of the Common Securities; (b) cause the Trust to remain a statutory trust and not to voluntarily dissolve, wind up, liquidate or be terminated, except as permitted by the Declaration; (c) use its commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the Trust will not be an "investment company" required to be registered under the 1940 Act; (d) not take any action that would be reasonably likely to cause the Trust to be classified as an association, a partnership or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes; and (e) pay all of the debts and obligations of the Trust (other than with respect to the securities issued by the Trust) and all costs and expenses of the Trust (including, but not limited to, all costs and expenses relating to the organization of the Trust, the fees and expenses of the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees and all costs and expenses relating to the operation of the Trust) and any and all taxes, duties, assessments or governmental charges of whatever nature (other than withholding taxes) imposed on the Trust by the United States, or any other taxing authority, so that the net amounts received and retained by the Trust after paying such expenses will be equal to the amounts the Trust would have received had no debts, obligations, costs, expenses, taxes, duties, assessments or governmental charges been incurred by or imposed on the Trust. 8
ARTICLE FIVE ORIGINAL ISSUE OF NOTES Section 501. Original Issue of Notes. Notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $474,226,850 may, upon execution of this First Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Notes upon receipt of a Company Order for authentication and delivery, without any further action by the Company. ARTICLE SIX RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF PREFERRED SECURITIES Section 601. Preferred Security Holders' Rights. If the Property Trustee fails to enforce its rights under the Notes in accordance with Section 507 of the Indenture after a holder of Preferred Securities has made a written request, the holder of Preferred Securities may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, institute a legal proceeding directly against the Company in accordance with Section 507 of the Indenture to enforce the Property Trustee's rights under the Indenture without first instituting any legal proceeding against the Property Trustee or any other Person. Section 602. Direct Action. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture, for as long as any Preferred Securities remain outstanding, to the fullest extent permitted by law, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and such event is attributable to the failure of the Company to pay interest or principal on the Notes on the date such interest or principal is otherwise payable (or in the case of a Tax Event Redemption or a repurchase of the Notes pursuant to Section 205(b), the Tax Event Redemption Date or the Repurchase Date), then a holder of Preferred Securities may institute a proceeding directly against the Company (a "Direct Action") to enforce payment to such holder of the principal or interest on Notes having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities of such holder. Section 603. Payments Pursuant to Direct Actions. The Company will have the right to set off against its obligations to the Trust, as Holder of the Notes, any payment made to a holder of Preferred Securities in connection with a Direct Action. Section 604. Modifications. So long as any Preferred Securities remain outstanding, (i) no amendment to this First Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture shall be made that adversely affects the holders of the Preferred Securities in any material respect, and no termination of this First Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture shall occur, and no waiver of any Event of Default or compliance with any covenant under this First Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture shall be effective, without the prior consent of the holders of at least a majority in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities unless and until the principal of the Notes and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon have been paid in full, and (ii) no amendment shall be made to this Article Six of this First Supplemental Indenture that would impair the rights of the holders of the Preferred Securities without the prior consent of the holders of each Outstanding Preferred Security unless and until the principal of the Notes and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon have been paid in full. 9
ARTICLE SEVEN REMARKETING Section 701. Effectiveness of this Article. Upon a distribution of the Notes upon the liquidation and dissolution of the Trust which occurs prior to the Initial Remarketing Date or, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Secondary Remarketing Date, the Notes shall be remarketed in accordance with the procedures (the "Remarketing Procedures") relating to Remarketing set forth in the Declaration and the Remarketing Agreement. In such case, the Notes shall be remarketed in accordance with the Remarketing Procedures as and to the extent that they were Preferred Securities and all references in the Remarketing Procedures to (i) the Preferred Securities shall be read as references to the Notes and (ii) the Property Trustee shall be read as references to the Indenture Trustee, unless the context requires otherwise. Until such a distribution, or if such distribution occurs after the Remarketing of the Preferred Securities pursuant to the Declaration or the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, this Article Seven will have no effect. ARTICLE EIGHT ACCELERATION OF MATURITY Section 801. Automatic Acceleration. If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes specified in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501 of the Indenture occurs and is continuing, the principal of the Notes shall become due and payable immediately, without any declaration, notice or other act on the part of the Trustee or any holder thereof. ARTICLE NINE MISCELLANEOUS Section 901. Execution of Supplemental Indenture. This First Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Indenture, and, as provided in the Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture forms a part thereof. Section 902. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof or of the Indenture which is required to be included in this First Supplemental Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control. Section 903. Construction. The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. Unless otherwise indicated herein, a reference to a Section or Article is to a Section or Article of this First Supplemental Indenture. Section 904. Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements in this First Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. Section 905. Separability Clause. In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 10
Section 906. Benefits of First Supplemental Indenture. Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture. Section 907. Recitals. The recitals contained in this First Supplemental Indenture shall be taken as statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. 11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: [SEAL] Attest: - ---------------------------------- Assistant Secretary WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: Attest: - ---------------------------------- Assistant Secretary
EXHIBIT A [FORM OF FACE OF NOTE] REGISTERED PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED SENIOR DEFERRABLE NOTE DUE 2007 No. R- $ PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to herein), for value received, hereby promises to pay Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Property Trustee for PSEG Funding Trust I, or registered assigns, the principal sum of $474,226,850 (Four Hundred Seventy Four Million, Two Hundred Twenty Six Thousand, Eight Hundred and Fifty Dollars) on November 16, 2007, and to pay interest on said principal sum from September 10, 2002, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 6.25% per annum to but excluding the Reset Effective Date, and at the Reset Rate thereafter (which rate shall not be higher than the maximum rate permitted by law) or, in the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, to but excluding November 16, 2007, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable. The Company shall pay interest on any overdue principal and premium, if any, and (without duplication and to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) on any overdue installment of interest at 10.25% per annum to but excluding the Reset Effective Date, and at the Reset Rate thereafter, compounded quarterly (prior to the Reset Effective Date) or semiannually (on and after the Reset Effective Date). Interest shall be payable quarterly in arrears on February 16, May 16, August 16 and November 16 of each year, commencing November 16, 2002; provided that, following the Reset Effective Date, interest shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each May 16 and November 16, commencing November 16, 2005 (in the event that the Reset Effective Date is also the Initial Reset Date) or May 16, 2006 (in the event that the Reset Effective Date is also the Purchase Contract Settlement Date). If the Reset Effective Date is the Initial Reset Date and such date is not otherwise a scheduled Interest Payment Date, an interest payment shall be payable on the Initial Reset Date equal to the amount of interest accrued on the Notes from the most recent Interest Payment Date to but excluding the Initial Reset Date. In such case, interest payable on the Interest Payment Date next following the Initial Reset Date shall equal the amount of interest accrued from and including the Initial Reset A-1
Date to but excluding such Interest Payment Date. Each date on which interest is payable hereon is referred to herein as an "Interest Payment Date." The amount of interest payable for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next calendar year, then such payment will be made on the preceding Business Day. The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture referred to herein, be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes, as defined in said Indenture) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the Business Day preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and may be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date to be fixed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse side hereof for the payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of this Note not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Note may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. Payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in such coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company may pay principal and interest by check payable in such money mailed to the Holder's registered address or by wire transfer to a dollar account designated by the Holder. Interest on this Note is deferrable, at the election of the Company, in accordance with the terms of the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Trustee. Any deferred interest shall accrue interest at the rate set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture. This Note is, to the extent provided in the Indenture, unsecured and will rank in right of payment equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company. Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the reverse side hereof, and such provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. A-2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Dated: September 10, 2002 By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: [SEAL] Attest: ------------------------------ Assistant Secretary (FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION) TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. Dated: September 10, 2002 WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: --------------------------------- Authorized Signatory A-3
(FORM OF REVERSE OF NOTE) PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED SENIOR DEFERRABLE NOTE DUE 2007 This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes") issued under an Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1998, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (together, as amended or supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $474,226,850. All terms used in this Note that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. This Note is not subject to any sinking fund, nor may this Note be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the Maturity Date except upon the occurrence of a Tax Event. In addition, the Notes shall be subject to repurchase by the Company following a Failed Secondary Remarketing as described below. The indebtedness of this Note will not be subject to defeasance pursuant to the Indenture. If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The Company, the Trust, the Holders of the Notes, and holders of Preferred Securities and Common Securities agree to treat the Notes as indebtedness for all United States federal income tax purposes. If a Tax Event occurs and is continuing, the Company may, at its option and upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice to the Holders of the Notes, redeem the Notes in whole (but not in part) at a price per Note equal to the Redemption Amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date. The Redemption Amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date, shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Tax Event Redemption Date, by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by each such Holder. A-4
If a Failed Secondary Remarketing has occurred, each Holder of Securities will have the right to deliver the Notes to the Company for repurchase at a price per Note equal to the Note Put Price. The Holder shall give written notice of such election not less than three Business Days prior to December 1, 2005 and the aggregate Put Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on December 1, 2005 by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by each such Holder. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities at the time of each series to be affected (voting as a class). The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series at the time, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of a Note of the series of which this Note is a part is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company to be maintained by the Trustee for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in the form attached hereto and by such other documents satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. The Security Registrar initially appointed under the Indenture for the Notes is Wachovia Bank, National Association. The Notes of the series of which this Note is a part are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $50 and in integral multiples thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. A-5
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or in this Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or indirectly through the Company or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof. A-6
OPTION TO ELECT REPURCHASE The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repurchase $____ principal amount of this Note in accordance with Section 205 of the First Supplemental Indenture, on the "Repurchase Date," at the principal amount of the Note plus any interest thereon accrued but unpaid to the date of repurchase, to the undersigned at: (Please print or type name and address of the undersigned), and to issue to the undersigned, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, a new Note or Notes representing the remaining aggregate principal amount of this Security. For this Option to Elect Repayment to be effective, this Note with the Option to Elect Repayment duly completed must be received by the Trustee at c/o ________________________ _______________________, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day immediately preceding December 1, 2005. Dated: Signature: ------------------------------ -------------------------- Signature Guarantee: ---------------- Note: The signature to this Option to Elect Repurchase must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within Note without alteration or enlargement or change whatsoever. A-7
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription of the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM - as tenants in common TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian -------------- ----------------- (Cust) (Minor) Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. ---------- FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE - ------------------------------------------- | | | | - ------------------------------------------- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address of Assignee) the within instrument of PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _____________________________________ Attorney to transfer said instrument on the books of the within-named corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: --------------------------- ------------------------------- Signature NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration by enlargement or any change whatever. A-8
EXHIBIT B [FORM OF FACE OF NOTE] THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES HEREINAFTER DESCRIBED AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO A SUCCESSOR OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR. REGISTERED PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED SENIOR DEFERRABLE NOTE DUE 2007 No. R- $ --------------- CUSIP No. -------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to herein), for value received, hereby promises to pay Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $474,226,850 (Four Hundred Seventy Four Million, Two Hundred Twenty Six Thousand, Eight Hundred and Fifty Dollars) or such other principal sum as is reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases attached hereto on November 16, 2007, and to pay interest on said principal sum from September 10, 2002, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 6.25% per annum to but excluding the Reset Effective Date, and at the Reset Rate thereafter (which rate shall not be higher than the maximum rate permitted by law) or, in the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, to but excluding November 16, 2007, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable. The Company shall pay interest on any overdue principal and premium, if any, B-1
and (without duplication and to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) on any overdue installment of interest at 10.25% per annum to but excluding the Reset Effective Date, and at the Reset Rate thereafter, compounded quarterly (prior to the Reset Effective Date) or semiannually (on and after the Reset Effective Date). Interest shall be payable quarterly in arrears on February 16, May 16, August 16 and November 16 of each year, commencing November 16, 2002; provided that, following the Reset Effective Date, interest shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each May 16 and November 16, commencing November 16, 2005 (in the event that the Reset Effective Date is also the Initial Reset Date) or May 16, 2006 (in the event that the Reset Effective Date is also the Purchase Contract Settlement Date). If the Reset Effective Date is the Initial Reset Date and such date is not otherwise a scheduled Interest Payment Date, an interest payment shall be payable on the Initial Reset Date equal to the amount of interest accrued on the Notes from the most recent Interest Payment Date to but excluding the Initial Reset Date. In such case, interest payable on the Interest Payment Date next following the Initial Reset Date shall equal the amount of interest accrued from and including the Initial Reset Date to but excluding such Interest Payment Date. Each date on which interest is payable hereon is referred to herein as an "Interest Payment Date." The amount of interest payable for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next calendar year, then such payment will be made on the preceding Business Day. The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture referred to herein, be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes, as defined in said Indenture) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the Business Day preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and may be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date to be fixed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse side hereof for the payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of this Note not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Note may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. Payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in such coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company may pay principal and interest by check payable in such money mailed to the Holder's registered address or by wire transfer to a dollar account designated by the Holder. Interest on this Note is deferrable, at the election of the Company, in accordance with the terms of the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as B-2
Trustee. Any deferred interest shall accrue interest at the rate set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture. This Note is, to the extent provided in the Indenture, unsecured and will rank in right of payment equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company. Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the reverse side hereof, and such provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. B-3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Dated: September 10, 2002 By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: [SEAL] Attest: ----------------------------- Assistant Secretary (FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION) TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Notes of the series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. Dated: September 10, 2002 WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: --------------------------------- Authorized Signatory B-4
(FORM OF REVERSE OF NOTE) PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED SENIOR DEFERRABLE NOTE DUE 2007 This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes") issued under an Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1998, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (together, as amended or supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $474,226,850. All terms used in this Note that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. This Note is not subject to any sinking fund, nor may this Note be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the Maturity Date except upon the occurrence of a Tax Event. In addition, the Notes shall be subject to repurchase by the Company following a Failed Secondary Remarketing as described below. The indebtedness of this Note will not be subject to defeasance pursuant to the Indenture. If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The Company, the Trust, the Holders of the Notes, and holders of Preferred Securities and Common Securities agree to treat the Notes as indebtedness for all United States federal income tax purposes. If a Tax Event occurs and is continuing, the Company may, at its option and upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice to the Holders of the Notes, redeem the Notes in whole (but not in part) at a price per Note equal to the Redemption Amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date. The Redemption Amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date, shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Tax Event Redemption Date, by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by each such Holder. B-5
If a Failed Secondary Remarketing has occurred, each Holder of Securities will have the right to deliver the Notes to the Company for repurchase at a price per Note equal to the Note Put Price. The Holder shall give written notice of such election not less than three Business Days prior to December 1, 2005 and the aggregate Put Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on December 1, 2005 by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by each such Holder. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities at the time of each series to be affected (voting as a class). The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series at the time, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. This Note shall be exchangeable for Notes registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary with respect to such series or its nominee only as provided in this paragraph. This Note shall be so exchangeable if (x) the Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such series or no longer eligible or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, or (y) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee an Order providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable. Notes so issued in exchange for this Note shall be of the same series, having the same interest rate, if any, and maturity and having the same terms as this Note, in authorized denominations and in the aggregate having the same principal amount as this Note and registered in such names as the Depositary for such Global Note shall direct. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of a Note of the series of which this Note is a part is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company to be maintained by the Trustee for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in the form attached hereto and by such other documents satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. The B-6
Security Registrar initially appointed under the Indenture for the Notes is Wachovia Bank, National Association. The Notes of the series of which this Note is a part are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $50 and in integral multiples thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or in this Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or indirectly through the Company or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof. B-7
OPTION TO ELECT REPURCHASE The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repurchase $____ principal amount of this Note in accordance with Section 205 of the First Supplemental Indenture, on the "Repurchase Date," at the principal amount of the Note plus any interest thereon accrued but unpaid to the date of repurchase, to the undersigned at: (Please print or type name and address of the undersigned), and to issue to the undersigned, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, a new Note or Notes representing the remaining aggregate principal amount of this Security. For this Option to Elect Repurchase to be effective, this Note with the Option to Elect Repayment duly completed must be received by the Trustee at c/o _____________________________, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day immediately preceding December 1, 2005. Dated: Signature: ------------------------------ -------------------------- Signature Guarantee: ---------------- Note: The signature to this Option to Elect Repayment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within Note without alteration or enlargement or change whatsoever. B-8
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription of the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM - as tenants in common TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian ------------- ------------------- (Cust) (Minor) Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act ---------- Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. - ----------------------------- FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE - ------------------------------------------- | | | | - ------------------------------------------- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address of Assignee) the within instrument of PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint ________________________________ Attorney to transfer said instrument on the books of the within-named corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: ---------------------- --------------------------- Signature NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration by enlargement or any change whatever. B-9
SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made: B-10
EXHIBIT C [FORM OF FACE OF NOTE] REGISTERED PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED SENIOR DEFERRABLE NOTE DUE 2007 No. R- $ PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to herein), for value received, hereby promises to pay Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined in the Indenture), or registered assigns, the principal sum of $474,226,850 (Four Hundred Seventy Four Million, Two Hundred Twenty Six Thousand, Eight Hundred and Fifty Dollars) or such other principal sum as is reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases attached hereto on November 16, 2007, and to pay interest on said principal sum from September 10, 2002, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 6.25% per annum to but excluding the Reset Effective Date, and at the Reset Rate thereafter (which rate shall not be higher than the maximum rate permitted by law) or, in the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, to but excluding November 16, 2007, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable. The Company shall pay interest on any overdue principal and premium, if any, and (without duplication and to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) on any overdue installment of interest at 10.25% per annum to but excluding the Reset Effective Date, and at the Reset Rate thereafter, compounded quarterly (prior to the Reset Effective Date) or semiannually (on and after the Reset Effective Date). Interest shall be payable quarterly in arrears on February 16, May 16, August 16 and November 16 of each year, commencing November 16, 2002; provided that, following the Reset Effective Date, interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears on each May 16 and November 16, commencing November 16, 2005 (in the event that the Reset Effective Date is also the Initial Reset Date) or May 16, 2006 (in the event that the Reset Effective Date is also the Purchase Contract Settlement Date). If the Reset Effective Date is the Initial Reset Date and such date is not otherwise a scheduled Interest Payment Date, an interest payment shall be payable on the Initial Reset Date equal to the amount of interest accrued on the Notes from the most recent Interest Payment Date to but excluding the C-1
Initial Reset Date. In such case, interest payable on the Interest Payment Date next following the Initial Reset Date shall equal the amount of interest accrued from and including the Initial Reset Date to but excluding such Interest Payment Date. Each date on which interest is payable hereon is referred to herein as an "Interest Payment Date." The amount of interest payable for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next calendar year, then such payment will be made on the preceding Business Day. The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture referred to herein, be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes, as defined in said Indenture) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the Business Day preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and may be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date to be fixed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse side hereof for the payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of this Note not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Note may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. Payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in such coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company may pay principal and interest by check payable in such money mailed to the Holder's registered address or by wire transfer to a dollar account designated by the Holder. Interest on this Note is deferrable, at the election of the Company, in accordance with the terms of the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Trustee. Any deferred interest shall accrue interest at the rate set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture. This Note is, to the extent provided in the Indenture, unsecured and will rank in right of payment equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company. Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the reverse side hereof, and such provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. C-2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Dated: September 10, 2002 By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: [SEAL] Attest: ----------------------------- Assistant Secretary (FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION) TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. Dated: September 10, 2002 WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: --------------------------------- Authorized Signatory C-3
(FORM OF REVERSE OF NOTE) PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED SENIOR DEFERRABLE NOTE DUE 2007 This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes") issued under an Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1998, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (together, as amended or supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $474,226,850. All terms used in this Note that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. This Note is not subject to any sinking fund, nor may this Note be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the Maturity Date except upon the occurrence of a Tax Event. In addition, the Notes shall be subject to repurchase by the Company following a Failed Secondary Remarketing as described below. The indebtedness of this Note will not be subject to defeasance pursuant to the Indenture. If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The Company, the Trust, the Holders of the Notes, and holders of Preferred Securities and Common Securities agree to treat the Notes as indebtedness for all United States federal income tax purposes. If a Tax Event occurs and is continuing, the Company may, at its option and upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice to the Holders of the Notes, redeem the Notes in whole (but not in part) at a price per Note equal to the Redemption Amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date. The Redemption Amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including compound interest, if any) to the Tax Event Redemption Date, shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Tax Event Redemption Date, by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by each such Holder. C-4
If a Failed Secondary Remarketing has occurred, each Holder of Securities will have the right to deliver the Notes to the Company for repurchase at a price per Note equal to the Note Put Price. The Holder shall give written notice of such election not less than three Business Days prior to December 1, 2005 and the aggregate Put Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on December 1, 2005 by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by each such Holder. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities at the time of each series to be affected (voting as a class). The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series at the time, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of a Note of the series of which this Note is a part is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company to be maintained by the Trustee for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in the form attached hereto and by such other documents satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. The Security Registrar initially appointed under the Indenture for the Notes is Wachovia Bank, National Association. The Notes of the series of which this Note is a part are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $50 and in integral multiples thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. C-5
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or in this Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or indirectly through the Company or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof. C-6
OPTION TO ELECT REPURCHASE The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repurchase $____ principal amount of this Note in accordance with Section 205 of the First Supplemental Indenture, on the "Repurchase Date," at the principal amount of the Note plus any interest thereon accrued but unpaid to the date of repurchase, to the undersigned at: (Please print or type name and address of the undersigned), and to issue to the undersigned, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, a new Note or Notes representing the remaining aggregate principal amount of this Security. For this Option to Elect Repurchase to be effective, this Note with the Option to Elect Repayment duly completed must be received by the Trustee at c/o ____________________________________, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day immediately preceding December 1, 2005. Dated: Signature: ---------------------------- -------------------------- Signature Guarantee: ---------------- Note: The signature to this Option to Elect Repurchase must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within Note without alteration or enlargement or change whatsoever. C-7
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription of the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM - as tenants in common TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian ---------------- -------------------- (Cust) (Minor) Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. ---------- FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE - ------------------------------------------- | | | | - ------------------------------------------- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address of Assignee) the within instrument of PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _________________________________ Attorney to transfer said instrument on the books of the within-named corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: --------------------------- ------------------------------------- Signature NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration by enlargement or any change whatever. C-8
SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES The following increases or decreases in this Pledged Note have been made: C-9

Exhibit 4.3 Amended and Restated Trust Agreement for PSEG Funding Trust I among PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED (as Depositor) WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (as Property Trustee) WACHOVIA TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (as Delaware Trustee) and THE ADMINISTRATIVE TRUSTEES NAMED HEREIN Dated as of September 10, 2002
CROSS REFERENCE TABLE Trust Indenture Section of Act Section Declaration ss.310(a)(1)................................................................7.07 (a)(2)................................................................7.07 (a)(3)................................................................7.09 (a)(4).........................................................2.07(a)(ii) (b)...................................................................7.08 ss.311(a)...................................................................7.13 (b)...................................................................7.13 ss.312(a)...................................................................5.07 (b)...................................................................5.07 (c)...................................................................5.07 ss.313(a)...................................................................7.14 (b)...................................................................7.14 (c)...................................................................7.14 (d)...................................................................7.14 ss.314(a)...................................................................7.15 (b).........................................................Not Applicable (c)(1)..........................................................7.16, 7.17 (c)(2)..........................................................7.16, 7.17 (c)(3)......................................................Not Applicable (d).........................................................Not Applicable (e).................................................................. 7.17 ss.315(a).......................................................7.01(a), 7.03(a) (b)............................................................7.02, 10.08 (c)................................................................7.01(a) (d).............................................................7.01, 7.03 (e).........................................................Not Applicable ss.316(a).........................................................Not Applicable (a)(1)(A)...................................................Not Applicable (a)(1)(B)...................................................Not Applicable (a)(2)......................................................Not Applicable (b).........................................................Not Applicable (c).........................................................Not Applicable ss.317(a)(1)......................................................Not Applicable (a)(2)......................................................Not Applicable (b)...................................................................5.09 ss.318(a)..................................................................10.10 - ---------- Note: This reconciliation and tie sheet shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Declaration. i
ARTICLE I Defined Terms Section 1.01. Definitions....................................................1 ARTICLE II Continuation of the Trust Section 2.01. Name..........................................................14 Section 2.02. Office of the Delaware Trustee; Principal Place of Business....................................................14 Section 2.03. Initial Contribution of Trust Property; Expenses of the Trust.......................................................15 Section 2.04. Issuance of the Trust Securities..............................15 Section 2.05. Purchase of Notes.............................................16 Section 2.06. Declaration of Trust..........................................16 Section 2.07. Authorization to Enter into Certain Transactions..............16 Section 2.08. Assets of Trust...............................................20 Section 2.09. Title to Trust Property.......................................20 ARTICLE III Payment Account Section 3.01. Payment Account...............................................20 ARTICLE IV Distributions; Redemption Section 4.01. Distributions.................................................21 Section 4.02. Redemption....................................................23 Section 4.03. Subordination of Common Securities............................25 Section 4.04. Payment Procedures............................................26 Section 4.05. Tax Returns and Reports.......................................26 Section 4.06. Payments under Indenture......................................26 ARTICLE V Trust Securities Certificates Section 5.01. Initial Ownership.............................................26 Section 5.02. The Trust Securities Certificates.............................26 Section 5.03. Delivery of Trust Securities Certificates.....................27 Section 5.04. Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Preferred Securities Certificates; Common Securities Certificates.....27 Section 5.05. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Securities Certificates................................................28 Section 5.06. Persons Deemed Securityholders................................28 Section 5.07. Access to List of Securityholders' Names and Addresses........29 Section 5.08. Maintenance of Office or Agency...............................29 Section 5.09. Appointment of Paying Agent...................................29 Section 5.10. Preferred Securities Certificates; Common Securities Certificate.................................................30 Section 5.11. Definitive Preferred Securities Certificates..................30 Section 5.12. Rights of Securityholders.....................................31 ii
Section 5.13. Initial Remarketing...........................................31 Section 5.14. Secondary Remarketing.........................................33 Section 5.15. Option to Put Preferred Securities upon Failed Secondary Remarketing.................................................36 ARTICLE VI Acts of Securityholders; Meetings; Voting Section 6.01. Limitations on Voting Rights..................................36 Section 6.02. Notice of Meetings............................................37 Section 6.03. Meetings of Holders of the Preferred Securities...............37 Section 6.04. Voting Rights.................................................38 Section 6.05. Proxies, etc..................................................38 Section 6.06. Securityholder Action by Written Consent......................38 Section 6.07. Record Date for Voting and Other Purposes.....................38 Section 6.08. Acts of Securityholders.......................................38 Section 6.09. Inspection of Records.........................................39 ARTICLE VII The Trustees Section 7.01. Certain Duties and Responsibilities...........................39 Section 7.02. Notice of Defaults; Direct Action by Securityholders..........40 Section 7.03. Certain Rights of Property Trustee............................41 Section 7.04. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities........42 Section 7.05. May Hold Securities...........................................42 Section 7.06. Compensation; Indemnity; Fees.................................43 Section 7.07. Corporate Property Trustee Required; Eligibility of Trustees....................................................43 Section 7.08. Conflicting Interests.........................................44 Section 7.09. Co-Trustees and Separate Trustee..............................44 Section 7.10. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.............45 Section 7.11. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor........................46 Section 7.12. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business....................................................47 Section 7.13. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Depositor or Trust.......................................................47 Section 7.14. Reports by Property Trustee...................................47 Section 7.15. Reports to the Property Trustee...............................48 Section 7.16. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent..............48 Section 7.17. Statements Required in Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel..................................................48 Section 7.18. Number of Trustees............................................48 Section 7.19. Delegation of Power...........................................49 Section 7.20. Voting........................................................49 ARTICLE VIII Dissolution and Liquidation Section 8.01. Dissolution Upon Expiration Date..............................49 Section 8.02. Early Termination.............................................49 Section 8.03. Termination...................................................50 Section 8.04. Winding Up....................................................50 iii
ARTICLE IX Mergers, Etc. Section 9.01. Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations or Replacements of the Trust................................................51 ARTICLE X Miscellaneous Provisions Section 10.01. Limitation of Rights of Securityholders.......................52 Section 10.02. Amendment.....................................................52 Section 10.03. Severability..................................................53 Section 10.04. Governing Law.................................................53 Section 10.05. Payments Due on Non-Business Day..............................54 Section 10.06. Successors and Assigns........................................54 Section 10.07. Headings......................................................54 Section 10.08. Reports, Notices and Demands..................................54 Section 10.09. Agreement Not to Petition.....................................55 Section 10.10. Trust Indenture Act; Conflict with Trust Indenture Act........55 Section 10.11. Acceptance of Terms of Declaration, Guarantee and Indenture...................................................55 EXHIBIT A Certificate of Trust...............................................A-1 EXHIBIT B Certificate Evidencing Common Securities...........................B-1 EXHIBIT C Certificate Evidencing Preferred Securities........................C-1 iv
AMENDED AND RESTATED TRUST AGREEMENT of PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust"), dated as of September 10, 2002, among (i) Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Depositor"), (ii) Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as trustee (the "Property Trustee"), (iii) Wachovia Trust Company, National Association (formerly known as First Union Trust Company, National Association), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States (the "Delaware Trustee"), (iv) Mark G. Kahrer, Morton A. Plawner and Fred F. Saunders (the "Administrative Trustees") (the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees are referred to collectively as the "Trustees"), and (v) the several Holders, as hereinafter defined. WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, the Depositor, the Delaware Trustee and one of the Administrative Trustees named in the Original Declaration have heretofore duly declared and established a statutory trust pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act by entering into a Trust Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2002 (the "Original Declaration"), and by executing and filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a Certificate of Trust on March 18, 2002, a form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A; and WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend and restate the Original Declaration in its entirety as set forth herein to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of the Common Securities, as hereinafter defined, by the Trust to the Depositor, (ii) the issuance and sale of the Preferred Securities, as hereinafter defined, by the Trust pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, as hereinafter defined, and (iii) the acquisition by the Trust from the Depositor of the Notes, as hereinafter defined. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, each party, for the benefit of the other party and for the benefit of the Securityholders, as hereinafter defined, hereby amends and restates the Original Declaration in its entirety and agrees as follows: ARTICLE I Defined Terms Section 1.01. Definitions. For all purposes of this Declaration, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (a) each term defined in this Article I has the meaning assigned to it in this Article I and includes the plural as well as the singular; (b) each of the other terms used herein that is defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, has the meaning assigned to it therein; (c) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this Declaration; and
(d) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Declaration as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "1940 Act" means the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. "Act" has the meaning specified in Section 6.08. "Administrative Trustee" means each individual identified as an "Administrative Trustee" in the preamble to this Declaration, solely in his/her capacity as Administrative Trustee of the Trust and not in his/her individual capacity, or such Administrative Trustee's successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as herein provided. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Applicable Ownership Interest" means, with respect to a Corporate Unit that includes the Treasury Portfolio, (A) a 5% undivided beneficial ownership interest in a $1,000 face amount of a principal or interest strip in a U.S. treasury security included in such Treasury Portfolio that matures on or prior to November 15, 2005, and (B) for each scheduled Distribution Date on the Preferred Securities that occurs after the Tax Event Redemption Date or, in the event that the Preferred Securities are successfully remarketed on the Initial Remarketing Date, after the Initial Reset Date and on or prior to November 16, 2005, an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a $1,000 face amount of a principal or interest strip in a U.S. treasury security included in such Treasury Portfolio that matures prior to such date in an aggregate amount equal to the Distribution on a Preferred Security that would have been due on such Distribution Date assuming (1) no reset of the Distribution rate on the Preferred Securities on the Reset Effective Date, and (2) in the case of the Treasury Portfolio to be purchased on the Initial Reset Date, that if a Distribution is payable on the Preferred Securities on the Initial Reset Date, that the Distribution payable on the next following Distribution Date on the Preferred Securities includes only Distributions accumulated from and including the Initial Reset Date to but excluding such Distribution Date. "Applicable Principal Amount" means either (A) in connection with a Tax Event Redemption Date that occurs prior to (1) the Initial Reset Date, or (2) in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, 2
the aggregate principal amount of the Notes corresponding to the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities that are components of the Corporate Units on the Tax Event Redemption Date, or (B) in connection with a Tax Event Redemption Date that occurs on or after (1) the Initial Reset Date or (2) in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing Date, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes corresponding to the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities Outstanding on such Tax Event Redemption Date. "Appropriate Benchmark Treasury" means direct obligations of the United States (which may be obligations traded on a when-issued basis only) having a maturity comparable to the remaining term to mandatory redemption of the Preferred Securities, as agreed upon by the Notes Issuer and the Reset Agent. The rate for the Appropriate Benchmark Treasury will be the bid side rate displayed at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Initial Remarketing Date in the Telerate system (or if the Telerate system is (a) no longer available on the Initial Remarketing Date or (b) in the opinion of the Reset Agent (after consultation with the Notes Issuer), no longer an appropriate system from which to obtain such rate, such other nationally recognized quotation system as, in the opinion of the Reset Agent (after consultation with the Notes Issuer) is appropriate). If such rate is not so displayed, the rate for the Appropriate Benchmark Treasury shall be, as calculated by the Reset Agent, the yield to maturity for the Appropriate Benchmark Treasury, expressed as a bond equivalent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as applicable, and applied on a daily basis, and computed by taking the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of 10:30 A.M., New York City time, on the Initial Remarketing Date of three leading United States government securities dealers selected by the Reset Agent (after consultation with the Notes Issuer) (which may include the Reset Agent or an Affiliate thereof). "Bankruptcy Event" means, with respect to any Person, the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) Such Person, pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian, as hereinafter defined, of it or for all or substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not discharged within 60 days; (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or 3
(v) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; or (e) A court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (i) is for relief against such Person in an involuntary case or proceeding; (ii) appoints a Custodian of such Person for all or substantially all of its properties; (iii) orders the liquidation of such Person; (iv) and in each case the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days. "Bankruptcy Laws" means Title 11 of the United States Code, or similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. "Board Resolution" means (i) a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Depositor to have been duly adopted by the Depositor's Board of Directors or a committee established thereby and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification or (ii) a certificate signed by the authorized officer or officers of the Depositor to whom the Depositor's Board of Directors or a committee established thereby has delegated its authority, and in each case, delivered to the Trustees. "Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificates" means certificates representing Preferred Securities issued in global, fully registered form with the Clearing Agency as described in Section 5.10. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday, or any other day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are permitted or required by any applicable law to close. "Cash Settlement" has the meaning specified in the Purchase Contract Agreement. "Certificate Depository Agreement" means the agreement among the Trust, the Property Trustee and The Depository Trust Company, as the initial Clearing Agency, dated as of or prior to the Closing Date, relating to the Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificates, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time. "Clearing Agency" means an organization registered as a "clearing agency" pursuant to Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The Depository Trust Company will be the initial Clearing Agency. "Clearing Agency Participant" means a member of, or participant in, the Clearing Agency. 4
"Closing Date" means the Closing Time as defined in the Underwriting Agreement, which date is also the date of execution and delivery of this Declaration. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "Collateral Agent" means The Bank of New York as Collateral Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Collateral Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Collateral Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Collateral Agent thereunder. "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or, if at any time after the execution of this Declaration such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Common Security" means an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust, having a Liquidation Amount of $50 and having the terms provided therefor in this Declaration, any Annex hereto and the certificate representing such interest, including the right to receive Distributions and a Liquidation Distribution as provided herein. "Common Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing ownership of Common Securities, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. "Common Securities Purchase Agreement" means the Common Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, between the Depositor and the Trust. "Corporate Trust Office" means the corporate trust office of the Property Trustee located in the State of New Jersey which at the date hereof is 21 South Street, Morristown, New Jersey 07960. "Corporate Unit" has the meaning specified in the Purchase Contract Agreement. "Creditor" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03. "Custodial Agent" means The Bank of New York as Custodial Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Custodial Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Custodial Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Custodial Agent thereunder. "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, sequestrator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law. "Declaration" means this Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, as the same may be modified, amended or supplemented in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, including all exhibits hereto, including, for all purposes of this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are 5
deemed to be a part of and govern this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or supplement, respectively. "Definitive Preferred Securities Certificates" means certificates representing Preferred Securities issued in certificated, fully registered form as described in Sections 5.10 and 5.11. "Delaware Statutory Trust Act" means Chapter 38 of Title 12 of the Delaware Code, 12 Del. C.ss.3801, et seq., as it may be amended from time to time. "Delaware Trustee" means the entity identified as the "Delaware Trustee" in the preamble to this Declaration solely in its capacity as Delaware Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as herein provided. "Depositor" has the meaning specified in the preamble to this Declaration. "Distribution Date" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(a). "Distributions" means amounts payable in respect of the Trust Securities as provided in Section 4.01. "Event of Default" means the occurrence of a Note Event of Default (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body). "Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 8.01. "Extension Period" means the period or periods in which pursuant to the Indenture payments of interest on the Notes are deferred by extending the interest payment periods thereof. "Failed Initial Remarketing" has the meaning specified in Section 5.13. "Failed Secondary Remarketing" has the meaning specified in Section 5.14. "Guarantee" means the Guarantee Agreement executed and delivered by the Depositor to Wachovia Bank, National Association, a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as trustee thereunder, contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Declaration, for the benefit of the Holders of the Preferred Securities, as amended from time to time. "Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1998, between the Depositor and the Indenture Trustee, as trustee thereunder, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2002, and as further amended or supplemented from time to time. "Indenture Trustee" means Wachovia Bank, National Association, a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, in its capacity as trustee under the 6
Indenture, or any successor thereto, appointed in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Indenture. "Initial Remarketing" means the Remarketing of the Preferred Securities on the Initial Remarketing Date. "Initial Remarketing Date" means the third Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date. "Initial Reset Date" means any Business Day selected by the Depositor in its sole discretion during the period commencing May 16, 2005 through August 16, 2005 upon not less than eight (8) Business Days' prior written notice to the Remarketing Agent; provided that, in the event that the Depositor does not select an Initial Reset Date, the Initial Reset Date shall be August 16, 2005. "Lien" means any lien, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, deed of trust, adverse ownership interest, hypothecation, assignment, security interest or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever. "Like Amount" means (a) with respect to a redemption of Trust Securities, Trust Securities having an aggregate Liquidation Amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be repaid in accordance with the Indenture and (b) with respect to a distribution of Notes to Holders of Trust Securities in connection with a dissolution of the Trust, Notes having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities in exchange for which such Notes are distributed. "Liquidation Amount" means the liquidation amount of $50 per Trust Security. "Liquidation Date" means the date on which Notes are to be distributed to Holders of Trust Securities in connection with a dissolution of the Trust pursuant to Section 8.04(a). "Liquidation Distribution" has the meaning specified in Section 8.04(d). "Notes" mean the series of senior deferrable notes to be issued by the Notes Issuer under the Indenture and to be purchased by the Trust and held by the Property Trustee. "Note Event of Default" means an "Event of Default" as defined in the Indenture with respect to the Notes. "Notes Issuer" means Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated or any successor entity under the Indenture in a merger, consolidation, or conveyance, transfer or lease of its properties and assets substantially as an entirety, in its capacity as issuer of the Notes under the Indenture. "Notes Purchase Agreement" means the Notes Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, between the Notes Issuer and the Trust. 7
"Note Redemption Date" means "Redemption Date" as defined in the Indenture with respect to a Tax Event Redemption. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by two of the following persons: the Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Depositor. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Trust, the Property Trustee or the Depositor or an Affiliate of the Depositor and who shall be acceptable to the Property Trustee. "Original Declaration" has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Declaration. "Outstanding", when used with respect to Trust Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Trust Securities represented by Trust Securities Certificates theretofore authenticated, executed and delivered under this Declaration, except: (a) Trust Securities evidenced by Trust Securities Certificates theretofore cancelled by the Administrative Trustees or delivered to the Administrative Trustees for cancellation or deemed cancelled pursuant to the provisions of this Declaration; (b) Trust Securities for whose redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Property Trustee or any Paying Agent for the Holders of such Trust Securities; provided that, if such Trust Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Declaration; (c) Trust Securities evidenced by Trust Securities Certificates in exchange for or in lieu of which other Trust Securities Certificates have been authenticated, executed and delivered pursuant to Section 5.05, other than any such Trust Securities Certificates in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Property Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Trust Securities Certificates are held by a protected purchaser in whose hands the Trust Securities evidenced by such Trust Securities Certificates are valid obligations of the Trust; and (d) as provided in Section 8.04(c); provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Preferred Securities owned by the Depositor, any Trustee or any Affiliate of the Depositor or any Trustee shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that in determining whether any Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Preferred Securities which such Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Preferred Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrative Trustees the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Preferred Securities and that the pledgee is not the Depositor or any Affiliate of the Depositor. 8
"Paying Agent" means the Property Trustee and any co-paying agent appointed pursuant to Section 5.09. "Payment Account" means a segregated non-interest-bearing corporate trust account maintained by the Property Trustee in its trust department for the benefit of the Securityholders in which all amounts paid to the Property Trustee in respect of the Notes or the Guarantee will be held and from which the Property Trustee or such other Paying Agent shall make payments to the Securityholders in accordance with Article 4. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature. "Pledge Agreement" means the Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, among the Depositor, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent. "Pledged Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the Pledge Agreement. "Preferred Security" means a Preferred Security issued by the Trust, and having an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust, having a Liquidation Amount of $50 and having terms provided therefor in this Declaration, any Annex hereto and the certificate representing such interest, including the right to receive Distributions and a Liquidation Distribution as provided herein. "Preferred Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing ownership of one or more Preferred Securities, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C. "Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City. "Property Trustee" means the commercial bank or trust company identified as the "Property Trustee" in the preamble to this Declaration solely in its capacity as Property Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor property trustee appointed as herein provided. "Purchase Contract" shall have the meaning specified in the Purchase Contract Agreement. "Purchase Contract Agent" means Wachovia Bank, National Association as Purchase Contract Agent under the Purchase Contract Agreement until a successor Purchase Contract Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Purchase Contract Agreement, and thereafter "Purchase Contract Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Purchase Contract Agent thereunder. 9
"Purchase Contract Agreement" means the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, between Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and the Purchase Contract Agent. "Purchase Contract Settlement Date" means November 16, 2005. "Quotation Agent" means (A) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and its successor, provided that if Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or its successor ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Depositor shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer therefor or (B) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Depositor. "Redemption Amount" means, for each Note, the product of the principal amount of such Note and a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price and the denominator of which shall be the Applicable Principal Amount. "Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Trust Security to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Declaration; it being understood that each Note Redemption Date and the stated maturity date of the Notes shall be a Redemption Date for a Like Amount of Trust Securities. "Redemption Price" means the amount for which each Trust Security will be redeemed, which amount will equal the redemption price paid by the Notes Issuer to repay or redeem each Note held by the Trust. "Remarketed Securities" means (i) so long as the Trust has not been dissolved in accordance with the terms hereof, the Preferred Securities or (ii) if the Trust has been dissolved in accordance with the terms hereof, the Notes. "Remarketing" means the remarketing of the Remarketed Securities by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement. "Remarketing Agent" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or, if the Remarketing Agent is removed or resigns, any successor remarketing agent selected by the Depositor. "Remarketing Agreement" means the Remarketing Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, among the Depositor, the Trust, the Remarketing Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent. "Remarketing Per Preferred Security Price" means the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price divided by the number of Preferred Securities held as components of Corporate Units and remarketed in the Initial Remarketing. "Reset Agent" has the meaning set forth in the Remarketing Agreement. "Reset Announcement Date" means, in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Initial Remarketing Date, the seventh (7th) Business Day immediately preceding the Initial 10
Reset Date and, in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Secondary Remarketing Date, if any, the seventh (7th) Business Day immediately preceding November 16, 2005. "Reset Effective Date" means (i) the Initial Reset Date, in case the Distribution rate is reset on the Initial Remarketing Date, or (ii) the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in case the Distribution rate is reset on the Secondary Remarketing Date. "Reset Rate" means the rate per annum (to be determined by the Reset Agent) equal to the sum of (X) the Reset Spread and (Y) the rate of interest on (1) in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Initial Remarketing Date, the Appropriate Benchmark Treasury in effect on the Initial Remarketing Date or (2) in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Secondary Remarketing Date, if any, the Two-Year Benchmark Treasury in effect on the Secondary Remarketing Date. "Reset Spread" means (a) in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Initial Remarketing Date, a spread amount to be determined by the Reset Agent on the applicable Reset Announcement Date as the appropriate spread so that the Reset Rate will be the Distribution rate that the Preferred Securities should bear in order for the Preferred Securities and Separate Preferred Securities to be remarketed to have an approximate aggregate market value on the Initial Remarketing Date of 100.25% of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price and the Separate Preferred Securities Purchase Price plus deferred and unpaid Distributions, if any, on such Preferred Securities and (b) in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Secondary Remarketing Date, if any, a spread amount determined by the Reset Agent on the applicable Reset Announcement Date as the appropriate spread so that the Reset Rate will be the Distribution rate that the Preferred Securities should bear in order for the Preferred Securities and Separate Preferred Securities to be remarketed to have an approximate market value on the Secondary Remarketing Date of 100.25% of their aggregate Liquidation Amount plus any deferred and unpaid Distributions, if any, on such Preferred Securities. "Responsible Officer" means, when used with respect to the Property Trustee, any vice president, assistant vice president, senior trust officer, trust officer, assistant trust officer or other officer associated with the corporate trust department of the Property Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Secondary Remarketing" means the Remarketing of the Preferred Securities on the Secondary Remarketing Date. "Secondary Remarketing Date" means the third Business Day immediately preceding November 16, 2005. "Securities Register" and "Securities Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 5.04. "Securityholder" or "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Trust Security or Securities is registered in the Securities Register; any such Person is a beneficial owner within the meaning of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. 11
"Separate Preferred Securities" means Preferred Securities that are no longer a component of Corporate Units. "Separate Preferred Securities Purchase Price" means the amount in cash equal to the product of the Remarketing Per Preferred Security Price multiplied by the number of Separate Preferred Securities remarketed in the Initial Remarketing. "Successor Securities" has the meaning specified in Section 9.01. "Tax Event" means the receipt by the Trust of an opinion of independent counsel, rendered by a law firm having a recognized national tax practice, to the effect that, as a result of any amendment to, or change, including any announced prospective change in, the laws or any regulations of the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority, any amendment to or change in an interpretation or application of these laws or regulations by any legislative body, court, governmental agency or regulatory authority or any interpretation or pronouncement that provides for a position with respect to these laws or regulations that differs from the generally accepted position on the Closing Date, which amendment or change is effective or which interpretation or pronouncement is announced on or after the Closing Date, there is more than an insubstantial increase in the risk that (i) the Trust is, or within 90 days of the date of such opinion will be, subject to United States Federal income tax with respect to income received or accrued on the Notes, (ii) interest payable by the Notes Issuer on the Notes is not, or within 90 days of the date of such opinion will not be, deductible by the Notes Issuer, in whole or in part, for United States Federal income tax purposes, or (iii) the Trust is, or within 90 days of the date of such opinion will be, subject to more than a de minimis amount of other taxes, duties or other governmental charges. "Tax Event Redemption" means that a Tax Event has occurred and is continuing and the Notes have been called for redemption by the Notes Issuer pursuant to the Indenture. "Tax Event Redemption Date" means the Redemption Date in respect of a Tax Event Redemption. "Tax Event Redemption Liquidation Amount" means either (i) if the Tax Event Redemption Date occurs prior to the Initial Reset Date or, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities that are components of Corporate Units on the Tax Event Redemption Date or (ii) if the Tax Event Redemption Date occurs on or after the Initial Reset Date or, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities Outstanding on such Tax Event Redemption Date. "Treasury Unit" has the meaning specified in the Purchase Contract Agreement. "Treasury Portfolio" means (1) in connection with the Initial Remarketing, a portfolio of zero-coupon U.S. treasury securities consisting of (a) principal or interest strips of U.S. treasury securities that mature on or prior to November 15, 2005, in an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities comprising components of Corporate Units on the Initial Remarketing Date and (b) with respect to each scheduled 12
Distribution Date on the Preferred Securities that occurs after the Initial Reset Date and on or before the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, principal or interest strips of U.S. treasury securities that mature prior to such Distribution Date in an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate Distribution payment that would be due on such Distribution Date on the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities comprising components of Preferred Securities on the Initial Reset Date, assuming (X) the rate on the Preferred Securities was not reset to the Reset Rate as described in Section 5.13 and (Y) in the case of the Treasury Portfolio to be purchased on the Initial Reset Date that is not also a scheduled Distribution Date, that the Distribution payable on the next following Distribution Date includes Distributions only accumulated from and including the Initial Reset Date to but excluding such Distribution Date, and (2) in connection with a Tax Event Redemption, (a) if the Tax Event Redemption Date occurs prior to the Initial Reset Date or, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a portfolio of zero-coupon U.S. treasury securities consisting of (i) principal or interest strips of U.S. treasury securities that mature on or prior to November 15, 2005 in an aggregate amount equal to the applicable Tax Event Redemption Liquidation Amount and (ii) with respect to each scheduled Distribution Date on the Preferred Securities that occurs after the Tax Event Redemption Date and on or before the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, principal or interest strips of U.S. treasury securities that mature on or prior to such Distribution Date in an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate Distribution payment that would be due on the applicable Tax Event Redemption Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities on such Distribution Date, and (b) if the Tax Event Redemption Date occurs on or after the Initial Reset Date or, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a portfolio of zero-coupon U.S. treasury securities consisting of (i) principal or interest strips of U.S. treasury securities which mature on or prior to November 15, 2007 in an aggregate amount equal to the applicable Tax Event Redemption Liquidation Amount and (ii) with respect to each scheduled Distribution Date on the Preferred Securities that occurs after the Tax Event Redemption Date, principal or interest strips of U.S. treasury securities that mature on or prior to such Distribution Date in an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate Distribution payment that would be due on such Distribution Date on the applicable Tax Event Redemption Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities. "Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price" means the lowest aggregate price quoted by the Primary Treasury Dealer to the Quotation Agent (a) in the case of a Tax Event Redemption, on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Tax Event Redemption Date for the purchase of the applicable Treasury Portfolio for settlement on the Tax Event Redemption Date and (b) in the case of the Initial Remarketing, on the Initial Remarketing Date for the purchase of the applicable Treasury Portfolio for settlement on the Initial Reset Date. "Treasury Securities" mean zero-coupon U.S. treasury securities (CUSIP Number 912820FX0 or 912820BQ9) with a principal amount at maturity equal to $1,000 and maturing on November 15, 2005, the Business Day preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. "Trust" means the Delaware statutory trust continued hereby and identified on the cover page to this Declaration. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Declaration was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture 13
Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended. "Trust Property" means (a) the Notes, (b) any cash on deposit in, or owing to, the Payment Account and (c) all proceeds and rights in respect of the foregoing and any other property and assets for the time being held or deemed to be held by the Property Trustee pursuant to the trusts of this Declaration. "Trust Security" means any one of the Common Securities or the Preferred Securities. "Trust Securities Certificate" means any one of the Common Securities Certificates or the Preferred Securities Certificates. "Two-Year Benchmark Treasury" means direct obligations of the United States (which may be obligations traded on a when-issued basis only) having a maturity comparable to the remaining term to mandatory redemption of the Preferred Securities, as agreed upon by the Notes Issuer and the Reset Agent. The rate for the Two-Year Benchmark Treasury will be the bid side rate displayed at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in the Telerate system (or if the Telerate system is (a) no longer available on the Secondary Remarketing Date or (b) in the opinion of the Reset Agent (after consultation with the Notes Issuer) no longer an appropriate system from which to obtain such rate, such other nationally recognized quotation system as, in the opinion of the Reset Agent (after consultation with the Notes Issuer), is appropriate). If such rate is not so displayed, the rate for the Two-Year Benchmark Treasury shall be, as calculated by the Reset Agent, the yield to maturity for the Two-Year Benchmark Treasury, expressed as a bond equivalent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as applicable, and applied on a daily basis, and computed by taking the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of 10:30 A.M., New York City time, on the Secondary Remarketing Date of three leading United States government securities dealers selected by the Reset Agent (after consultation with the Notes Issuer) (which may include the Reset Agent or an affiliate thereof). "Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated September 5, 2002, among the Trust, the Depositor and the Underwriters named therein. ARTICLE II Continuation of the Trust Section 2.01. Name. The Trust created and continued hereby shall be known as "PSEG Funding Trust I" as such name may be modified from time to time by the Administrative Trustees following written notice to the Holders of Trust Securities and the other Trustees, in which name the Trustees may conduct the business of the Trust, make and execute contracts and other instruments on behalf of the Trust and sue and be sued. Section 2.02. Office of the Delaware Trustee; Principal Place of Business. The address of the Delaware Trustee in the State of Delaware is One Rodney Square, 920 King Street, Suite 102, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 or such other address in the State of Delaware as the Delaware Trustee may designate by written notice to the Securityholders and the Depositor. The principal place of business of the Trust is 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07101. 14
Section 2.03. Initial Contribution of Trust Property; Expenses of the Trust. (a) The Property Trustee acknowledges receipt in trust from the Depositor in connection with the Original Declaration of the sum of $10, which constituted the initial Trust Property. (b) The Depositor shall be responsible for and shall pay for all obligations (other than with respect to the Trust Securities) and all costs and expenses of the Trust (including, but not limited to, costs and expenses relating to the organization of the Trust, the issuance and sale of the Preferred Securities, the fees and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Trustees as provided in Section 7.06, the costs and expenses of accountants, attorneys, statistical or bookkeeping services, expenses for printing and engraving and computing or accounting equipment, Paying Agent(s), Securities Registrar, duplication, travel and telephone and other telecommunications expenses and costs and expenses incurred in connection with the disposition of Trust assets). (c) The Depositor will pay any and all taxes (other than United States withholding taxes attributable to the Trust or its assets) and all liabilities, costs and expenses with respect to such taxes of the Trust. (d) The Depositor's obligations under this Section 2.03 shall be for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, the Property Trustee and any Person to whom any such obligations, costs, expenses and taxes are owed (a "Creditor") whether or not such Creditor has received notice hereof. The Property Trustee and any such Creditor may enforce the Depositor's obligations under this Section 2.03 directly against the Depositor and the Depositor irrevocably waives any right or remedy to require that the Property Trustee or any such Creditor take any action against the Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Depositor. The Depositor agrees to execute such additional agreements as may be necessary or desirable in order to give full effect to the provisions of this Section 2.03. (e) The Depositor shall make no claim upon the Trust Property for the payment of such expenses. Section 2.04. Issuance of the Trust Securities. The Depositor, on behalf of the Trust, executed and delivered the Underwriting Agreement. One of the Administrative Trustees, on behalf of the Trust, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.02 and deliver to the Collateral Agent one or more Preferred Securities Certificates registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent having an aggregate Liquidation Amount of $460,000,000, against receipt by the Property Trustee of the aggregate purchase price of such Preferred Securities of $460,000,000, which amount the Administrative Trustees shall promptly deliver to the Property Trustee. Contemporaneously with each issuance of Preferred Securities, one Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.02 and deliver to the Depositor a Common Securities Certificate, registered in the name of the Depositor, representing 284,537 Common Securities having an aggregate Liquidation Amount of $14,226,850, and in satisfaction of the purchase price of such Common Securities the Depositor shall deliver to the Property Trustee the sum of $14,226,850. The Trust Securities may have such additional or different terms specified in an Annex hereto. 15
Section 2.05. Purchase of Notes. The Administrative Trustees, on behalf of the Trust, shall purchase $474,226,850 aggregate principal amount of Notes from the Depositor, registered in the name of the Trust. In satisfaction of the purchase price for such Notes, the Property Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, shall deliver to the Depositor the sum of $474,226,850. Section 2.06. Declaration of Trust. The exclusive purposes and functions of the Trust are (a) to issue and sell Trust Securities and use the proceeds from such sale to acquire the Notes and to hold, transfer, sell and otherwise dispose of the Notes in accordance with this Declaration, (b) to enter into the Underwriting Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement, the Common Securities Purchase Agreement, the Notes Purchase Agreement and the Certificate Depository Agreement, (c) to maintain the status of the Trust as a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes, and (d) except as otherwise limited herein, to engage in only those activities necessary, convenient or incidental thereto. The Depositor hereby appoints the Trustees as trustees of the Trust, to have all the rights, powers and duties to the extent set forth herein, and the Trustees hereby accept such appointment. The Property Trustee hereby declares that it will hold the Trust Property in trust upon and subject to the conditions set forth herein for the benefit of the Securityholders. The Administrative Trustees shall have all rights, powers and duties set forth herein. The Delaware Trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any powers, nor shall the Delaware Trustee have any of the duties and responsibilities of the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees set forth herein. The Delaware Trustee shall be one of the Trustees of the Trust for the sole and limited purpose of fulfilling the requirements of Section 3807 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. Section 2.07. Authorization to Enter into Certain Transactions. The Trustees shall conduct the affairs of the Trust in accordance with the terms of this Declaration. Subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section, and in accordance with the following provisions (i) and (ii), the Trustees shall have the authority to enter into all transactions and agreements determined by the Trustees to be appropriate in exercising the authority, express or implied, otherwise granted to the Trustees under this Declaration, and to perform all acts in furtherance thereof, including without limitation, the following: (i) As among the Trustees, the Administrative Trustees shall have the power and authority to act on behalf of the Trust with respect to the following matters: (A) executing and delivering the Trust Securities on behalf of the Trust; (B) acquiring the Notes with the proceeds of the sale of the Trust Securities; provided that the Administrative Trustees shall cause legal title to the Notes to be held of record in the name of the Property Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities; (C) giving the Depositor and the Property Trustee prompt written notice of the occurrence of a Tax Event; provided that the Administrative Trustees shall consult with the Depositor and the Property Trustee before taking or refraining from taking any action in relation to any such Tax Event; 16
(D) establishing a record date with respect to all actions to be taken hereunder that require a record date to be established, including and with respect to, for the purposes of Section 316(c) of the Trust Indenture Act; (E) bringing or defending, paying, collecting, compromising, arbitrating, resorting to legal action or otherwise adjust claims or demands of or against the Trust, unless pursuant to Section 2.07(a)(ii)(I), the Property Trustee has the power to bring any legal action; (F) employing or otherwise engaging employees and agents (who may be designated as officers with titles) and managers, contractors, advisors and consultants to conduct only those services that the Administrative Trustees have authority to conduct directly, and to pay reasonable compensation for such services; (G) causing the Trust to comply with the Trust's obligations under the Trust Indenture Act; (H) giving to the Property Trustee the certificate required by Section 314(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act, which certificate may be executed by any Administrative Trustee; (I) incurring expenses that are necessary or incidental to carry out any of the purposes of the Trust; (J) taking all action that may be necessary or appropriate for the preservation and continuation of the Trust's valid existence, rights, franchise and privileges as a statutory trust under the laws of the State of Delaware and of each other jurisdiction in which such existence is necessary to protect the limited liability of the Holders of the Securities or to enable the Trust to effect the purposes for which it was created; (K) taking all action necessary to cause all applicable tax returns and tax information reports that are required to be filed with respect to the Trust to be duly prepared and filed; (L) causing the Trust to enter into, and executing, delivering and performing on behalf of the Trust, the Remarketing Agreement, the Common Securities Purchase Agreement, the Notes Purchase Agreement and the Certificate Depository Agreement and such other agreements as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the purposes and function of the Trust, including the appointment of a successor depositary; (M) assisting in registering the Preferred Securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and under state securities or blue sky laws, and qualifying this Declaration as a trust indenture under the Trust Indenture Act; (N) assisting in the listing of the Preferred Securities upon such securities exchange or exchanges as the Depositor shall determine and the registration of the Preferred Securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the preparation and filing of all periodic and other reports and other documents pursuant to the foregoing; 17
(O) to the extent provided in this Declaration, dissolving, liquidating and terminating the Trust in accordance with the terms of this Declaration, and preparing, executing and filing the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, if necessary; (P) sending notices or assisting the Property Trustee in sending notices and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Notes to Securityholders in accordance with this Declaration; and (Q) taking any action incidental to the foregoing as the Administrative Trustees may from time to time determine is necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Declaration for the benefit of the Securityholders (without consideration of the effect of any such action on any particular Securityholder). (ii) As among the Trustees, the Property Trustee shall have the power, duty and authority to act on behalf of the Trust with respect to the following matters: (A) establishing and maintaining the Payment Account and appointing Paying Agents (subject to Section 5.09); (B) receiving payment of the purchase price of the Trust Securities; (C) receiving and holding the Notes; (D) collecting interest, premium, if any, and principal payments on the Notes and depositing them in the Payment Account; (E) making Distributions and other payments to the Securityholders in respect of the Trust Securities; (F) exercising all of the rights, powers and privileges of a holder of the Notes; (G) sending notices of defaults, redemptions, Extension Periods, liquidations and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the Notes to the Securityholders in accordance with this Declaration; (H) engaging in such ministerial activities as shall be necessary or appropriate to effect the redemption of the Trust Securities to the extent they are redeemed or mature; (I) to the extent provided in this Declaration, dissolving, liquidating and terminating the Trust, including distributing the Trust Property in accordance with the terms of this Declaration, and preparing, executing and filing the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, if necessary; (J) after an Event of Default, taking any action incidental to the foregoing as the Property Trustee may from time to time determine is necessary or advisable to 18
give effect to the terms of this Declaration and protect and conserve the Trust Property for the benefit of the Securityholders (without consideration of the effect of any such action on any particular Securityholder); and (K) registering transfers and exchanges of the Preferred Securities in accordance with this Declaration (but only if at such time the Property Trustee shall be the Securities Registrar). (b) So long as this Declaration remains in effect, the Trust (or the Trustees acting on behalf of the Trust) shall not undertake any business, activities or transaction except as expressly provided herein or contemplated hereby. In particular, the Trustees acting on behalf of the Trust shall not: (i) acquire any assets or investments (other than the Notes), reinvest the proceeds derived from investments, possess any power or otherwise act in such a way as to vary the Trust Property or engage in any activities not authorized by this Declaration; (ii) sell, assign, transfer, exchange, mortgage, pledge, set-off or otherwise dispose of any of the Trust Property or interests therein, including to Securityholders, except as expressly provided herein; (iii) take any action that would cause the Trust to fail or cease to qualify as a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes; (iv) incur any indebtedness for borrowed money or incur any other obligations; (v) issue any securities or other evidences of beneficial ownership of, or beneficial interests in, the Trust other than the Trust Securities; or (vi) take or consent to any action that would result in the placement of a Lien on any of the Trust Property. The Administrative Trustees shall defend all claims and demands of all Persons at any time claiming any Lien on any of the Trust Property adverse to the interest of the Trust or the Securityholders in their capacity as Securityholders. (c) In connection with the issue and sale of the Preferred Securities, the Depositor shall have the right and responsibility to assist the Trust with respect to, or effect on behalf of the Trust, the following (and any actions taken by the Depositor in furtherance of the following prior to the date of this Declaration are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects): (i) preparing for filing with the Commission and executing on behalf of the Trust a registration statement on Form S-3 in relation to the Preferred Securities, including any amendments thereto; (ii) determining the States in which to take appropriate action to qualify or register for sale all or part of the Preferred Securities and doing any and all such acts, other than actions which must be taken by or on behalf of the Trust, and advising the Trustees of actions they must take on behalf of the Trust, and preparing for execution and filing any documents to be 19
executed and filed by the Trust or on behalf of the Trust, as the Depositor deems necessary or advisable in order to comply with the applicable laws of any such States; (iii) if necessary, preparing for filing and executing on behalf of the Trust an application to the New York Stock Exchange or any other national stock exchange or The Nasdaq Stock Market for listing upon notice of issuance of any Preferred Securities; (iv) if necessary, preparing for filing with the Commission and executing on behalf of the Trust a registration statement on Form 8-A relating to the registration of the Preferred Securities under Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including any amendments thereto; (v) negotiating the terms of, and executing and delivering, the Underwriting Agreement providing for the sale of the Preferred Securities; and (vi) taking any other actions necessary or desirable to carry out any of the foregoing activities. (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Administrative Trustees are authorized and directed to conduct the affairs of the Trust and to operate the Trust so that (i) the Trust will not be deemed to be an "investment company" required to be registered under the 1940 Act, or taxed as a corporation or a partnership for United States Federal income tax purposes, (ii) the Trust will qualify as a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes and (iii) the Notes will be treated as indebtedness of the Depositor for United States Federal income tax purposes. In this connection, the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees are authorized to take any action, not inconsistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Trust, as amended from time to time, the certificate of incorporation of the Depositor, as amended from time to time, or this Declaration, that each of the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees determines in their discretion to be necessary or desirable for such purposes as long as that action does not adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Preferred Securities or vary the terms of the Preferred Securities in any material respect. Section 2.08. Assets of Trust. The assets of the Trust shall consist of the Trust Property. Section 2.09. Title to Trust Property. Legal title to all Trust Property shall be vested at all times in the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) and shall be held and administered by the Property Trustee for the benefit of the Securityholders in accordance with this Declaration. ARTICLE III Payment Account Section 3.01. Payment Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Property Trustee shall establish the Payment Account. All monies and other property deposited or held from time to time in the Payment Account shall be held by the Property Trustee for the exclusive benefit of the Securityholders. The Property Trustee shall have exclusive control of the Payment Account for the purpose of making deposits in and withdrawals from the Payment Account in accordance with this 20
Declaration; provided that any Paying Agent shall have the right of withdrawal with respect to the Payment Account solely for the purpose of making the payments contemplated under Article IV. (b) The Property Trustee shall deposit in the Payment Account, promptly upon receipt, all payments of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes and any amounts paid to the Property Trustee pursuant to the Guarantee. Amounts held in the Payment Account shall not be invested pending distribution thereof. ARTICLE IV Distributions; Redemption Section 4.01. Distributions. (a) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be cumulative, and will accumulate whether or not there are funds of the Trust available for the payment of Distributions. Distributions shall accumulate from September 10, 2002 at the rate per annum of 6.25% of the Liquidation Amount per Trust Security to but excluding the Reset Effective Date, if any, and at the Reset Rate thereafter. Except during an Extension Period for the Notes pursuant to the Indenture, Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be payable quarterly in arrears on February 16, May 16, August 16 and November 16 of each year, commencing on November 16, 2002; provided that, following the Reset Effective Date, if any, Distributions shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each May 16 and November 16, commencing November 16, 2005, in the event that the Preferred Securities are successfully remarketed on the Initial Remarketing Date, or May 16, 2006, in the event that the Preferred Securities are successfully remarketed on the Secondary Remarketing Date. The amount of Distributions payable for any period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If any date on which Distributions are otherwise payable on the Trust Securities is not a Business Day, then the payment of such Distributions shall be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment of such Distributions shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made on such date (each date on which Distributions are payable in accordance with this Section 4.01(a) is referred to as a "Distribution Date"). If the Preferred Securities are successfully remarketed on the Initial Remarketing Date and the Initial Reset Date is not otherwise a scheduled Distribution Date, a Distribution shall be payable to Holders on the Initial Reset Date equal to Distributions accumulated from, and including, the most recent Distribution Date to, but excluding, the Initial Reset Date. In such case, the Distribution payable on the Distribution Date next following the Initial Reset Date shall equal the amount of Distributions accumulated from, and including, the Initial Reset Date to, but excluding, such Distribution Date. Within two Business Days after receipt by the Property Trustee of notice of an Extension Period pursuant to Section 208 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Property Trustee shall give notice thereof to the Securityholders by first class mail, postage prepaid. 21
(b) The Distribution rate on the Trust Securities will be reset on the Initial Remarketing Date to the applicable Reset Rate (which Reset Rate will be effective on and after the Initial Reset Date), except in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing. In the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Distribution rate on the Trust Securities will be reset on the Secondary Remarketing Date to the applicable Reset Rate (which Reset Rate will be effective on and after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date), except that in the event of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, the Distribution rate on the Trust Securities will not be reset and the scheduled Distribution Dates shall remain February 16, August 16, May 16 and November 16. On the applicable Reset Announcement Date, the applicable Reset Spread and the Appropriate Benchmark Treasury or Two-Year Benchmark Treasury, as applicable, will be announced by the Depositor. On the Business Day immediately following such Reset Announcement Date, the Holders of Preferred Securities will be notified of such Reset Spread and Appropriate Benchmark Treasury or Two-Year Benchmark Treasury, as applicable, by the Property Trustee. Such notice shall be sufficiently given to such Holders of Notes if published in a newspaper which is published each Business Day in the English language of general circulation in The City of New York, which is expected to be The Wall Street Journal. (c) Not later than seven calendar days nor more than 15 calendar days immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, as the case may be, the Depositor shall, or shall request the Clearing Agency or its nominee to, notify the Holders of Preferred Securities of such Reset Announcement Date and, in the case of a Secondary Remarketing, the procedures to be followed by such Holders of Preferred Securities wishing to settle the related Purchase Contracts with separate cash on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. (d) The Trust Securities represent undivided beneficial interests in the Trust Property, and, subject to Sections 4.03 and 4.06 hereof, all Distributions will be made pro rata on each of the Trust Securities. During an Extension Period for the Notes, the rate per annum at which Distributions on the Trust Securities are then accumulating shall accumulate at (1) the rate of 10.25% per annum, compounded quarterly, to but excluding November 16, 2007, if the Preferred Securities are not successfully remarketed, or (2) the rate of 10.25% per annum, compounded quarterly, to but excluding the Reset Effective Date and at the Reset Rate (which shall not be higher than the maximum rate permitted under applicable law) thereafter, compounded semi-annually, to but excluding November 16, 2007, if the Preferred Securities are successfully remarketed. Notwithstanding clause (2) above, upon no less than 2 Business Days' notice to the Remarketing Agent prior to the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, as the case may be, the Notes Issuer may elect pursuant to the Indenture that payments of interest on the Notes, and therefore Distributions on the Trust Securities, may not be deferrable after the Reset Effective Date. (e) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be made from the Payment Account by the Property Trustee or any Paying Agent and shall be payable on each Distribution Date only to the extent that the Trust has funds then available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Distributions. (f) Distributions on the Trust Securities on each Distribution Date shall be payable to the Holders thereof as they appear on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities on the 22
relevant record date, which shall be one Business Day prior to such Distribution Date; provided, however, that in the event that the Preferred Securities are not in book-entry-only form, the relevant record date shall be the day selected by the Administrative Trustees which is at least one Business Day but not more than 60 Business Days preceding such Distribution Date, whether or not a Business Day. (g) Upon the successful remarketing of the Preferred Securities on either the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, any and all deferred and unpaid Distributions on the Preferred Securities will be deemed to have been paid in full by Trust on the Initial Reset Date or the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, as the case may be. In addition, upon the occurrence of a Failed Secondary Remarketing, an Extension Period, if any, in effect at such time shall terminate and the Trust shall be obligated to pay all deferred and unpaid Distributions on November 16, 2005. Section 4.02. Redemption. (a) The Trust will call for redemption all Outstanding Trust Securities upon the earlier of a Tax Event Redemption Date or the stated maturity date of the Notes, in each case, at the Redemption Price. (b) If the Notes Issuer redeems the Notes upon the occurrence and continuance of a Tax Event, the proceeds from such redemption shall be applied by the Property Trustee on a proportional basis to redeem the Outstanding Trust Securities in whole (but not in part) at a Redemption Price per Trust Security equal to the Redemption Amount attributable to a Note with a principal amount equal to the Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security plus any accumulated and unpaid Distributions thereon to the Tax Event Redemption Date. If, following the occurrence of a Tax Event, the Notes Issuer exercises its option to redeem the Notes, the Notes Issuer shall appoint the Quotation Agent to assemble the Treasury Portfolio in consultation with the Note Issuer. Subject to the Trust's fulfillment of the notice requirements set forth in Section 4.02(c), if a Tax Event Redemption Date occurs (i) prior to the Initial Reset Date, or (ii) if the Preferred Securities are not successfully remarketed on the Initial Remarketing Date, prior to November 16, 2005, the Redemption Price payable upon redemption of each Outstanding Preferred Security comprising a component of the Corporate Units will be distributed to the Collateral Agent under the Pledge Agreement, which in turn will apply that amount to purchase the Treasury Portfolio and remit the remaining portion, if any, of such price to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the Preferred Securities in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement. If such excess amount referred to in the immediately preceding sentence is to be paid to Holders of the Preferred Securities, (i) with respect to the Preferred Securities represented by one or more global Certificates (including Separate Preferred Securities), by 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Tax Event Redemption Date under the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent will deposit irrevocably with the Clearing Agency or its nominee funds sufficient to pay such amount, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall give the Clearing Agency irrevocable instructions and authority to pay such amount to the Beneficial Owners of the Preferred Securities, and (ii) with respect to Preferred Securities not represented by one or more global Certificates under the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent shall pay such amount to the Holders of such Trust Securities by check mailed to the address of each Holder appearing on the 23
Securities Register of the Trust on the Tax Event Redemption Date. If a Tax Event Redemption occurs on or after the Initial Reset Date, in the case of clause (i) of the second preceding sentence, or on or after November 16, 2005, in the case of clause (ii) of the second preceding sentence, the Treasury Portfolio shall not be purchased and the Property Trustee shall distribute to the Holders of the Outstanding Trust Securities on the Tax Event Redemption Date, the Redemption Price payable upon redemption of such Holders' interests in the assets of the Trust in accordance with Section 4.02(e) below. (c) Notice of redemption shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date to each Holder of Trust Securities to be redeemed, at such Holder's address appearing in the Securities Register. All notices of redemption shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the Redemption Price; (iii) the CUSIP number; (iv) the place or places where Trust Securities Certificates are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price; (v) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become payable upon each such Trust Security to be redeemed and that Distributions thereon will cease to accumulate on and after such date; and (vi) if less than all of the Outstanding Trust Securities are to be redeemed, the identification and total Liquidation Amount of the particular Trust Securities to be redeemed. No defect in the notice of redemption or in the mailing thereof with respect to any Holder shall affect the validity of the redemption proceedings with respect to any other Holder. (d) The Trust Securities redeemed on each Redemption Date shall be redeemed at the Redemption Price with the proceeds from the contemporaneous redemption or payment at maturity of Notes. Redemptions of the Trust Securities shall be made and the Redemption Price shall be payable on each Redemption Date only to the extent that the Trust has funds then available in the Payment Account for the payment of such Redemption Price. (e) If the Trust, by action of the Property Trustee, gives a notice of redemption in respect of any Preferred Securities, then, on the Redemption Date, subject to Section 4.02(b) and (d), (i) with respect to the Trust Securities represented by one or more global Trust Securities Certificates, by 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Redemption Date, the Property Trustee will deposit irrevocably with the Clearing Agency or its nominee funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price, and the Property Trustee shall give the Clearing Agency irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the Redemption Price to the beneficial owners of the Trust Securities, and (ii) with respect to Trust Securities not represented by one or more global Trust Securities Certificates, the Property Trustee shall pay the applicable Redemption Price to the Holders of such Trust Securities by check mailed to the address of each Holder appearing on 24
the register of the Trust on the Redemption Date upon surrender of the Preferred Securities Certificate representing such Preferred Securities at the Corporate Trust Office of the Property Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Holder of any Preferred Securities is the Purchase Contract Agent, the payment of the Redemption Price in respect of the Preferred Securities held by the Purchase Contract Agent shall be made no later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Redemption Date by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by the Collateral Agent or the Purchase Contract Agent. If notice of redemption shall have been given and funds irrevocably deposited as required, then upon the date of such deposit, all rights of Securityholders holding Trust Securities so called for redemption will cease, except the right of such Securityholders to receive the Redemption Price, but without interest, and such Trust Securities will cease to be Outstanding. In the event that any date on which any Redemption Price is payable is not a Business Day, then payment of the Redemption Price payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment will be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case, with the same force and effect as if made on such date. In the event that payment of the Redemption Price in respect of any Trust Securities called for redemption is improperly withheld or refused, and not paid either by the Trust or by the Depositor pursuant to the Guarantee, Distributions on such Trust Securities will continue to accumulate, at the then applicable rate, from the Redemption Date originally established by the Trust for such Trust Securities to the date such Redemption Price is actually paid, in which case the actual payment date will be the date fixed for redemption for purposes of calculating the Redemption Price. Section 4.03. Subordination of Common Securities. (a) Payment of Distributions on, and the Liquidation, Distribution and Redemption Price of, the Trust Securities, as applicable, shall be made pro rata based on the Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities; provided, however, that if on any applicable date, a Note Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, no payment of any Distribution on, or Liquidation, Distribution and Redemption Price of, any Common Security, and no other payment on account of the Common Securities, shall be made unless payment in full in cash of all accumulated and unpaid Distributions on all Outstanding Preferred Securities for all distribution periods terminating on or prior thereto, or in the case of payment of the Liquidation, Distribution and Redemption Price, the full amount of such Liquidation, Distribution and Redemption Price applicable to all Outstanding Preferred Securities then Outstanding or then being redeemed, as the case may be, shall have been made or provided for, and all funds immediately available to the Property Trustee shall first be applied to the payment in full in cash of all Distributions on, or the Liquidation, Distribution and Redemption Price of, Preferred Securities then due and payable. (b) In the case of the occurrence of any Note Event of Default, the Holder of Common Securities will be deemed to have waived any right to act with respect to any related Event of Default under this Declaration and such Note Event of Default until the effect of such related Event of Default and such Note Event of Default has been cured, waived or otherwise eliminated. Until any such Event of Default under this Declaration and such Note Event of Default has been so cured, waived or otherwise eliminated, the Property Trustee shall act solely 25
on behalf of the Holders of the Preferred Securities and not the Holder of the Common Securities, and only the Holders of the Preferred Securities will have the right to direct the Property Trustee to act on their behalf. Section 4.04. Payment Procedures. Payments of Distributions pursuant to Section 4.01 in respect of the Preferred Securities shall be made by check mailed to the address of the Holder thereof as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or, if the Preferred Securities are held by a Clearing Agency, such Distributions shall be made to the Clearing Agency by wire transfer in immediately available funds. Payments of Distributions pursuant to Section 4.01 in respect of the Common Securities shall be made in such manner as shall be mutually agreed between the Property Trustee and the Holder of the Common Securities. Payment of the Redemption Price or Liquidation Distribution of the Trust Securities shall be made in immediately available funds upon surrender of the Preferred Securities Certificate representing such Preferred Securities at the Corporate Trust Office of the Property Trustee. Section 4.05. Tax Returns and Reports. To the extent required by law, the Administrative Trustees shall prepare (or cause to be prepared), at the Depositor's expense, and file all Federal, State and local tax and information returns and reports required to be filed by or in respect of the Trust. In this regard, the Administrative Trustees shall (a) prepare and file (or cause to be prepared or filed) the appropriate Internal Revenue Service Form required to be filed in respect of the Trust in each taxable year of the Trust and (b) prepare and furnish (or cause to be prepared and furnished) to each Securityholder the related Internal Revenue Service Form 1099 OID, or any successor form or the information required to be provided on such form. The Administrative Trustees shall provide the Depositor and the Property Trustee with a copy of all such returns, reports and schedules promptly after such filing or furnishing. The Trustees shall comply with United States Federal withholding and backup withholding tax laws and information reporting requirements with respect to any payments to Securityholders under the Trust Securities. Section 4.06. Payments under Indenture. Any amount payable hereunder to any Holder of Preferred Securities shall be reduced by the amount of any corresponding payment such Holder has directly received pursuant to Section 508 of the Indenture or pursuant to the Guarantee. Notwithstanding the provisions hereunder to the contrary, Securityholders acknowledge that any Holder of Preferred Securities that receives payment under Section 508 of the Indenture may receive amounts greater than the amount such Holder may be entitled to receive pursuant to the other provisions of this Declaration. ARTICLE V Trust Securities Certificates Section 5.01. Initial Ownership. Upon the creation of the Trust and the contribution by the Depositor pursuant to Section 2.03 and until the issuance of the Trust Securities, and at any time during which no Trust Securities are Outstanding, the Depositor shall be the sole beneficial owner of the Trust. Section 5.02. The Trust Securities Certificates. The Trust Securities Certificates shall be issued representing one or more Preferred Securities. Preferred Securities Certificates 26
representing fractional interests shall not be issued. The Trust Securities Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Trust by manual or facsimile signature of one of the Administrative Trustees. Trust Securities Certificates bearing the manual or facsimile signature of an individual who was, at the time when such signature shall have been affixed, authorized to sign on behalf of the Trust, shall be validly issued and entitled to the benefits of this Declaration, notwithstanding that such individual shall have ceased to be so authorized prior to the delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates or did not hold such office at the date of delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates. A transferee of a Trust Securities Certificate shall become a Securityholder, and shall be entitled to the rights and subject to the obligations of a Securityholder hereunder, upon due registration of such Trust Securities Certificate in such transferee's name pursuant to Section 5.04. Section 5.03. Delivery of Trust Securities Certificates. One or more of the Administrative Trustees shall cause Trust Securities Certificates, in an aggregate Liquidation Amount as provided in Sections 2.04 and 2.05, to be executed on behalf of the Trust as provided in Section 5.02 and delivered to or upon a written order of the Depositor signed by its Chairman of the Board, its President, any Vice President or the Treasurer, without further corporate action by the Depositor, in authorized denominations. Section 5.04. Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Preferred Securities Certificates; Common Securities Certificates. (a) The Preferred Securities initially shall be pledged, pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, as collateral to secure the obligations of the Holders of Corporate Units to purchase common shares of the Depositor in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement. (i) The Preferred Securities may be transferred, in whole or in part, only in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Declaration and to the extent that they are Pledged Securities, pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. To the fullest extent permitted by law, any transfer or purported transfer of any Preferred Security not made in accordance with this Declaration shall be null and void. (ii) Subject to this Section 5.04 and any legend inscribed on a Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate, the Preferred Securities shall be freely transferable. (iii) A registrar appointed by the Depositor (the "Securities Registrar") shall keep or cause to be kept, at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.08, a register (the "Securities Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Securities Registrar shall provide for the registration of Trust Securities Certificates and registration of transfers and exchanges of Preferred Securities Certificates as herein provided. The Property Trustee shall be the initial Securities Registrar; any successor Securities Registrar shall be appointed by the Administrative Trustees. (iv) Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Preferred Securities Certificate at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.08, one of the 27
Administrative Trustees shall execute and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Preferred Securities Certificates representing the same number of Preferred Securities dated the date of execution by the Administrative Trustees. At the option of a Holder, Preferred Securities Certificates may be exchanged for other Preferred Securities Certificates upon surrender of the Preferred Securities Certificates to be exchanged at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 5.08. The Securities Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of any Preferred Securities that have been called for redemption or after the Liquidation Date. (v) Preferred Securities presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Administrative Trustees and the Securities Registrar duly executed by the Holder or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing. Each Preferred Securities Certificate surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be cancelled and subsequently disposed of by the Property Trustee in accordance with its customary practice. (vi) No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Preferred Securities, but the Securities Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Preferred Securities other than an exchange not involving any transfer. (b) The Notes Issuer may not transfer the Common Securities. To the fullest extent permitted by law, any attempted transfer of the Common Securities shall be null and void. Section 5.05. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Securities Certificates. If (a) any mutilated Trust Securities Certificate shall be surrendered to the Securities Registrar, or if the Securities Registrar shall receive evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Trust Securities Certificate, and (b) there shall be delivered to the Securities Registrar and the Administrative Trustees such security or indemnity as may be reasonably required by them to hold the Securities Registrar and the Trust harmless, then in the absence of notice that such Trust Securities Certificate shall have been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Administrative Trustees, on behalf of the Trust shall execute and make available for delivery, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Trust Securities Certificate, a new Trust Securities Certificate of like tenor. In connection with the issuance of any new Trust Securities Certificate under this Section, the Administrative Trustees or the Securities Registrar may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. Any duplicate Trust Securities Certificate issued pursuant to this Section shall constitute conclusive evidence of an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust, as if originally issued, whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate shall be found at any time. Section 5.06. Persons Deemed Securityholders. Prior to due presentation of a Trust Security Certificate for registration of transfer, the Trustees or the Securities Registrar shall treat the Person in whose name any Trust Securities Certificate shall be registered in the Securities Register as the owner and Holder of such Trust Securities Certificate for the purpose of receiving 28
Distributions and for all other purposes whatsoever, and neither the Trustees nor the Securities Registrar shall be bound by any notice to the contrary. Section 5.07. Access to List of Securityholders' Names and Addresses. In the event that the Property Trustee is no longer the Securities Registrar, the Administrative Trustees or the Depositor shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Property Trustee a list, in such form as the Property Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Securityholders as of the most recent record date (a) quarterly, not later than 10 days prior to a Distribution Date, and (b) promptly after receipt by the Administrative Trustees or the Depositor of a request therefor from the Property Trustee in order to enable the Paying Agent to pay Distributions in accordance with Section 4.01 hereof, in each case to the extent such information is in the possession or control of the Administrative Trustees or the Depositor and is not identical to a previously supplied list or has not otherwise been received by the Property Trustee. The rights of Securityholders to communicate with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Declaration or under the Trust Securities, and the corresponding rights of the Property Trustee shall be as provided in the Trust Indenture Act. Each Holder, by receiving and holding a Trust Securities Certificate, shall be deemed to have agreed not to hold the Depositor, the Property Trustee, the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee accountable by reason of the disclosure of its name and address, regardless of the source from which such information was derived. Section 5.08. Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Property Trustee shall maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or offices or agency or agencies where Preferred Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Trustees in respect of the Trust Securities Certificates may be served. The Property Trustee shall give prompt written notice to the Depositor and to the Securityholders of any change in the location of the Securities Register or any such office or agency, which shall initially be at the Corporate Trust Office of the Property Trustee. Section 5.09. Appointment of Paying Agent. The Paying Agent shall make Distributions to Securityholders from the Payment Account and shall report the amounts of such Distributions to the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. Any Paying Agent shall have the revocable power to withdraw funds from the Payment Account for the purpose of making Distributions. The Administrative Trustees may revoke such power and remove the Paying Agent, provided that such revocation and removal with respect to the sole Paying Agent shall not become effective until the appointment of a successor. The Paying Agent shall initially be the Property Trustee, and any co-paying agent chosen by the Property Trustee and acceptable to the Administrative Trustees and the Depositor. Any Person acting as Paying Agent shall be permitted to resign as Paying Agent upon 30 days' written notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Depositor, and, if applicable, the Property Trustee, provided that such resignation with respect to the sole Paying Agent shall not become effective until the appointment of a successor. In the event that the Property Trustee shall no longer be the Paying Agent or a successor Paying Agent shall resign or its authority to act be revoked, the Administrative Trustees shall appoint a successor that is acceptable to the Property Trustee (in the case of any other Paying Agent) and the Depositor to act as Paying Agent (which shall be a bank or trust company and have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000). The Administrative Trustees shall cause such successor Paying Agent or any additional Paying Agent appointed by the Administrative 29
Trustees to execute and deliver to the Trustees an instrument in which such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustees that as Paying Agent, such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying Agent will hold all sums, if any, held by it for payment to the Securityholders in trust for the benefit of the Securityholders entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Securityholders. The Paying Agent shall return all of such sums remaining unclaimed to the Property Trustee and upon removal of a Paying Agent such Paying Agent shall also return such sums in its possession to the Property Trustee. The provisions of Sections 7.01, 7.03 and 7.06 shall apply to the Property Trustee also in its role as Paying Agent, for so long as the Property Trustee shall act as Paying Agent and, to the extent applicable, to any other Paying Agent appointed hereunder. Any reference in this Declaration to the Paying Agent shall include any co-paying agent unless the context requires otherwise. Section 5.10. Preferred Securities Certificates; Common Securities Certificate. (a) The Preferred Securities, upon original issuance, will be issued in the form of a Definitive Preferred Securities Certificate registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent. Separate Preferred Securities shall be issued in the form of one or more printed or typewritten Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificates to be delivered to The Depository Trust Company, the initial Clearing Agency, by, or on behalf of, the Trust. Such Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate or Certificates shall initially be registered on the Securities Register in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the initial Clearing Agency. Each such Definitive Preferred Securities Certificate and Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate shall represent such number of the Outstanding Preferred Securities as shall be from time to time endorsed thereon, which numbers may be increased or decreased, as applicable, to reflect, in connection with the creation of Treasury Units and the recreation of Corporate Units, transfers between Pledged Preferred Securities and Separate Preferred Securities. Any such increase or decrease in the aggregate number of Preferred Securities represented by (i) a Definitive Preferred Securities Certificate shall be made by the Collateral Agent and (ii) a Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate shall be made by the Property Trustee, as custodian of the Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificates, in each case upon the instructions of the Collateral Agent given pursuant to Article IV of the Pledge Agreement. (b) A single Common Securities Certificate representing the Common Securities shall be issued to the Depositor in the form of a definitive Common Securities Certificate. Section 5.11. Definitive Preferred Securities Certificates. If, with respect to Book-Entry Preferred Securities, (a) the Depositor advises the Trustees in writing that the Clearing Agency is no longer willing or able to properly discharge its responsibilities with respect to the Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificates or the Clearing Agency is no longer registered or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, and the Depositor is unable to locate a qualified successor within 90 calendar days, (b) the Depositor at its option advises the Trustees in writing that it elects to terminate the book-entry system through the Clearing Agency or (c) an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, then the Trust shall issue Definitive Preferred Securities Certificates. Upon surrender to the Administrative Trustees of the Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificates by the Clearing Agency, accompanied by registration instructions, one of the Administrative Trustees shall execute and deliver the Definitive Preferred Securities Certificates in accordance 30
with the instructions of the Clearing Agency and the Depositor will appoint a Paying Agent with respect to such Definitive Preferred Securities Certificates. Neither the Securities Registrar nor the Trustees shall be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, such instructions. The Definitive Preferred Securities Certificates shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or may be produced in any other manner as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Trustees, as evidenced by the execution thereof by one of the Administrative Trustees. Section 5.12. Rights of Securityholders. The Securityholders shall not have any right or title to the Trust Property other than the undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust conferred by their Trust Securities and they shall have no right to call for any partition or division of property, profits or rights of the Trust except as described below. The Trust Securities shall be personal property giving only the rights specifically set forth therein and in this Declaration. The Trust Securities shall have no preemptive or similar rights and when issued and delivered to Securityholders against payment of the purchase price therefor will be fully paid and nonassessable by the Trust. The Holders of the Trust Securities, in their capacities as such, shall be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Section 5.13. Initial Remarketing. (a) The Depositor will request, not later than seven nor more than 15 calendar days prior to the Initial Remarketing Date, that the Clearing Agency notify the Holders of the Preferred Securities and the Holders of Corporate Units and Treasury Units of the Initial Remarketing. (b) Not later than 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date (but in no event earlier than the Distribution Date next preceding the Initial Reset Date), each Holder of the Separate Preferred Securities may elect to have Preferred Securities held by such Holder remarketed. Holders of Separate Preferred Securities shall give notice of their election to have such Separate Preferred Securities remarketed to the Custodial Agent and deliver such Separate Preferred Securities to the Custodial Agent pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. Any such notice and delivery shall be irrevocable after 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date and may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate is established. Under Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract Agreement, Preferred Securities that constitute components of Corporate Units will be remarketed as provided therein and in this Section 5.13. The Preferred Securities constituting components of Corporate Units shall be deemed tendered, notwithstanding any failure by the Holder of such Corporate Units to deliver or properly deliver such Preferred Securities to the Remarketing Agent for purchase. (c) The right of each Holder to have Preferred Securities (including any Preferred Securities that constitute components of Corporate Units) tendered for purchase shall be limited to the extent that (i) the Remarketing Agent conducts a Remarketing pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, (ii) Preferred Securities tendered have not been called for redemption, (iii) the Remarketing Agent is able to find a purchaser or purchasers for tendered Preferred Securities at a price per Preferred Security such that the aggregate price for the Preferred 31
Securities is not less than 100% of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid Distributions, if any, on the Preferred Securities, and (iv) such purchaser or purchasers deliver the purchase price therefor to the Remarketing Agent as and when required. (d) On the Initial Remarketing Date, pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement the Remarketing Agent shall use reasonable efforts to remarket, at a price per Preferred Security such that the aggregate price for the Preferred Securities is equal to approximately 100.25% of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid Distributions on the Preferred Securities to be remarketed. (e) [reserved]. (f) If the Remarketing Agent has determined that it will be able to remarket all Preferred Securities tendered or deemed tendered prior to 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Initial Remarketing Date, the Reset Agent, subject to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, shall determine the Reset Rate. (g) If, by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Initial Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agent is unable to remarket all Preferred Securities tendered or deemed tendered for purchase or if the Initial Remarketing shall not have occurred because a condition precedent to the Remarketing shall not have been fulfilled, a failed Remarketing ("Failed Initial Remarketing") shall be deemed to have occurred and the Remarketing Agent shall so advise by telephone the Collateral Agent, the Administrative Trustees, the Depositor, the Property Trustee, the Indenture Trustee and the Clearing Agency. (h) By approximately 4:30 P.M., New York City time, on the Initial Remarketing Date, provided that there has not been a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent shall advise, by telephone (i) the Collateral Agent, the Administrative Trustees, the Depositor, the Property Trustee, the Indenture Trustee and the Clearing Agency of the Reset Rate determined in the Initial Remarketing and the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities sold in the Initial Remarketing, (ii) each purchaser (or the Clearing Agency Participant thereof) of the Reset Rate and the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities such purchaser is to purchase and (iii) each purchaser to give instructions to its Clearing Agency Participant to pay the purchase price on the Initial Reset Date in same day funds against delivery of the Preferred Securities purchased through the facilities of the Clearing Agency. (i) In accordance with the Clearing Agency's normal procedures, on the Initial Reset Date, the transactions described above with respect to each Preferred Security tendered for purchase and sold in the Initial Remarketing shall be executed through the Clearing Agency, and the accounts of the respective Clearing Agency Participants shall be debited and credited and such Preferred Securities delivered by book entry as necessary to effect purchases and sales of such Preferred Securities. The Clearing Agency shall make payment in accordance with its normal procedures. (j) If any Holder selling Preferred Securities in the Initial Remarketing fails to deliver such Preferred Securities, the Clearing Agency Participant of such selling Holder and of any 32
other Person that was to have purchased Preferred Securities in the Initial Remarketing may deliver to any such other Person an aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities that is less than the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities that otherwise was to be purchased by such Person. In such event, the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities to be so delivered shall be determined by such Clearing Agency Participant, and delivery of such lesser aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities shall constitute good delivery. (k) The Remarketing Agent is not obligated to purchase any Preferred Securities in the Initial Remarketing or otherwise. Neither the Trust, any Trustee, the Depositor nor the Remarketing Agent shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Preferred Securities for Remarketing. (l) The tender and settlement procedures set forth in this Section 5.13, including provisions for payment by purchasers of Preferred Securities in the Initial Remarketing, shall be subject to modification, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary set forth herein, to the extent required by the Clearing Agency or if the book-entry system is no longer available for the Preferred Securities at the time of the Initial Remarketing, to facilitate the tendering and Remarketing of Preferred Securities in certificated form. In addition, the Remarketing Agent may, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary set forth herein, modify the settlement procedures set forth herein in order to facilitate the settlement process. (m) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Reset Rate shall in no event exceed the maximum rate permitted by applicable law and, as provided in the Remarketing Agreement, neither the Remarketing Agent nor the Reset Agent shall have any obligation to determine whether there is any limitation under applicable law on the Reset Rate or, if there is any such limitation, the maximum permissible Reset Rate on the Preferred Securities and they shall rely solely upon written notice from the Depositor (which the Depositor agrees to provide no later than the eighth Business Day before the Initial Reset Date) as to whether or not there is any such limitation and, if so, the maximum permissible Reset Rate. Section 5.14. Secondary Remarketing. (a) If a Failed Initial Remarketing has occurred, the Depositor will request, not later than seven nor more than 15 calendar days prior to the Secondary Remarketing that the Clearing Agency notify the Holders of the Preferred Securities and the Holders of Corporate Units and Treasury Units of the Secondary Remarketing and of the procedures that must be followed if a Holder of Preferred Securities wishes to exercise such Holder's rights with respect to the Put Option if there is a Failed Secondary Remarketing. (b) Not later than 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (but in no event earlier than the Distribution Date next preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date), each Holder of the Preferred Securities may elect to have Preferred Securities held by such Holder remarketed. Under Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract Agreement, (i) holders or beneficial owners of Corporate Units that do not give notice of intention to make a Cash Settlement of their related Purchase Contracts shall be deemed to have consented to the disposition of the Preferred 33
Securities constituting a component of such Corporate Units in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, and (ii) holders or beneficial owners of Corporate Units who give such notice but fail to pay the Purchase Price in cash as required by Section 5.02(b)(ii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to the disposition of the Preferred Securities constituting a component of such Corporate Units in accordance with Section 5.02(d) of the Purchase Contract Agreement. Holders of Separate Preferred Securities shall give notice of their election to have such Preferred Securities remarketed to the Custodial Agent and deliver such Separate Preferred Securities to the Custodial Agent pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. Any such notice and delivery shall be irrevocable after 5:00 A.M., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date and may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate is established. (c) If any Holder of Corporate Units does not give a notice of its intention to make a Cash Settlement, the Preferred Securities of such Holder shall be deemed tendered, notwithstanding any failure by such Holder to deliver or properly deliver such Preferred Securities to the Remarketing Agent for purchase. (d) The right of each Holder to have Preferred Securities (including any Preferred Securities that constitute components of Corporate Units) tendered for purchase shall be limited to the extent that (i) the Remarketing Agent conducts a Remarketing pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, (ii) Preferred Securities tendered have not been called for redemption, (iii) the Remarketing Agent is able to find a purchaser or purchasers for tendered Preferred Securities at a price of not less than 100% of the aggregate Liquidation Amount thereof plus deferred and unpaid Distributions thereon, if any, and (iv) such purchaser or purchasers deliver the purchase price therefor to the Remarketing Agent as and when required. (e) If a Failed Initial Remarketing has occurred, on the Secondary Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agent shall use reasonable efforts to remarket, at a price equal to approximately 100.25% of the aggregate Liquidation Amount thereof plus deferred and unpaid Distributions, if any, thereon, Preferred Securities tendered or deemed tendered for purchase. (f) If the Remarketing Agent has determined that it will be able to remarket all Preferred Securities tendered or deemed tendered prior to 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Secondary Remarketing Date, the Reset Agent shall, subject to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, determine the Reset Rate. (g) If, by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Secondary Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agent is unable to remarket all Preferred Securities tendered or deemed tendered for purchase or if the Secondary Remarketing shall not have occurred because a condition precedent to the Secondary Remarketing shall not have been fulfilled, a failed Remarketing ("Failed Secondary Remarketing") shall be deemed to have occurred, the interest rate on the Preferred Securities shall not be reset and the Remarketing Agent shall so advise by telephone the Collateral Agent, the Administrative Trustees, the Depositor, the Property Trustee, the Indenture Trustee and the Clearing Agency. 34
(h) By approximately 4:30 P.M., New York City time, on the Secondary Remarketing Date, provided that there has not been a Failed Secondary Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent shall advise, by telephone (i) the Collateral Agent, the Administrative Trustees, the Depositor, the Property Trustee, the Indenture Trustee and the Clearing Agency of the Reset Rate determined in the Secondary Remarketing and the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities sold in the Secondary Remarketing, (ii) each purchaser (or the Clearing Agency Participant thereof) of the Reset Rate and the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities such purchaser is to purchase and (iii) each purchaser to give instructions to its Clearing Agency Participant to pay the purchase price on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in same day funds against delivery of the Preferred Securities purchased through the facilities of the Clearing Agency. (i) In accordance with the Clearing Agency's normal procedures, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the transactions described above with respect to each Security tendered for purchase and sold in the Secondary Remarketing shall be executed through the Clearing Agency, and the accounts of the respective Clearing Agency Participants shall be debited and credited and such Preferred Securities delivered by book entry as necessary to effect purchases and sales of such Preferred Securities. The Clearing Agency shall make payment in accordance with its normal procedures. (j) If any Holder selling Preferred Securities in the Secondary Remarketing fails to deliver such Preferred Securities, the Clearing Agency Participant of such selling Holder and of any other Person that was to have purchased Preferred Securities in the Secondary Remarketing may deliver to any such other Person an aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities that is less than the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities that otherwise was to be purchased by such Person. In such event, the aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities to be so delivered shall be determined by such Clearing Agency Participant, and delivery of such lesser aggregate Liquidation Amount of Preferred Securities shall constitute good delivery. (k) The Remarketing Agent is not obligated to purchase any Preferred Securities in the Secondary Remarketing or otherwise. Neither the Trust, any Trustee, the Depositor nor the Remarketing Agent shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Preferred Securities for Remarketing. (l) The tender and settlement procedures set forth in this Section 5.14, including provisions for payment by purchasers of Preferred Securities in the Secondary Remarketing, shall be subject to modification, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary set forth herein, to the extent required by the Clearing Agency or if the book-entry system is no longer available for the Preferred Securities at the time of the Secondary Remarketing, to facilitate the tendering and Remarketing of Preferred Securities in certificated form. In addition, the Remarketing Agent may, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary set forth herein, modify the settlement procedures set forth herein in order to facilitate the settlement process. (m) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Reset Rate shall in no event exceed the maximum rate permitted by applicable law and, as provided in the Remarketing Agreement, neither the Remarketing Agent nor the Reset Agent shall have any obligation to 35
determine whether there is any limitation under applicable law on the Reset Rate or, if there is any such limitation, the maximum permissible Reset Rate on the Preferred Securities and they shall rely solely upon written notice from the Depositor (which the Depositor agrees to provide prior to the eighth Business Day before the Purchase Contract Settlement Date) as to whether or not there is any such limitation and, if so, the maximum permissible Reset Rate. Section 5.15. Option to Put Preferred Securities upon Failed Secondary Remarketing. (a) If a Failed Secondary Remarketing has occurred, Holders of the Separate Preferred Securities who hold such Separate Preferred Securities following the Purchase Contract Settlement Date will have the right to deliver the Preferred Securities to the Trust for repurchase on December 1, 2005 (the "Repurchase Date"), upon at least three Business Days prior notice, at a price per Preferred Security equal to the Liquidation Amount plus any accrued and unpaid Distributions (the "Put Price"). (b) In order for the Preferred Securities to be repurchased on the Put Option Exercise Date, the Property Trustee must receive on or prior to 5:00 p.m. New York City time on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Repurchase Date, at its Corporate Trust Office or at an office or agency maintained by the Property Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, the Preferred Securities to be repurchased with the form entitled "Option to Elect Repurchase" on the reverse of or otherwise accompanying such Preferred Securities duly completed. Any such notice received by the Trustee shall be irrevocable. All questions as to the validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of the Preferred Securities for repayment shall be determined by the Notes Issuer, whose determination shall be final and binding. (c) Payment of the Put Price shall be made through the Property Trustee, subject to the Property Trustee's receipt of payment from the Notes Issuer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, no later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Repurchase Date, and to such account as may be designated. If the Trustee holds immediately available funds sufficient to pay the Put Price of Preferred Securities presented for repayment, then, immediately prior to the close of business on the Repurchase Date, such Preferred Securities will cease to be Outstanding and Distributions thereon will cease to accumulate, whether or not such Preferred Securities have been received by the Trust, and all other rights of the Holder in respect of the Preferred Securities, including the Holder's right to require the Trust to repay such Preferred Securities, shall terminate and lapse (other than the right to receive the Put Price upon delivery of such Preferred Securities but without interest on such Put Price). Neither the Property Trustee nor the Trust will be required to register or cause to be registered the transfer of any Preferred Securities which repayment has been elected. ARTICLE VI Acts of Securityholders; Meetings; Voting Section 6.01. Limitations on Voting Rights. (a) Except as provided herein and in the Indenture and as otherwise required by law, no Holder of Trust Securities shall have any right to vote or in any manner otherwise control the 36
administration, operation and management of the Trust or the obligations of the parties hereto, nor shall anything herein set forth, or contained in the terms of the Trust Securities Certificates, be construed so as to constitute the Securityholders from time to time as partners or members of an association. (b) The Trustees shall not (i) direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Indenture Trustee or executing any trust or power conferred on the Indenture Trustee with respect to such Notes, (ii) waive any past default which may be waived under Section 513 of the Indenture, (iii) exercise any right to rescind or annul an acceleration of the principal of all the Notes or (iv) consent to any amendment or modification of the Indenture, where such consent shall be required, without, in each case, obtaining the prior consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Liquidation Amount of all Outstanding Preferred Securities; provided, however, that where such consent under the Indenture would require the consent of each holder of Notes affected thereby, no such consent shall be given by the Property Trustee without the prior written consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Preferred Security. The Trustees shall not revoke any action previously authorized or approved by a vote of the Holders of Preferred Securities, except by a subsequent vote of the Holders of Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall notify all Holders of the Preferred Securities of any notice received from the Indenture Trustee as a result of the Trust being the holder of the Notes. In addition to obtaining the consent of the Holders of the Preferred Securities, prior to taking any of the foregoing actions, the Trustees shall, at the expense of the Depositor, obtain an Opinion of Counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that the Trust will not be classified as an association taxable as a corporation or partnership for United States Federal income tax purposes on account of such action and will continue to be classified as a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes. (c) Subject to Section 10.02(c) hereof, if any proposed amendment to the Declaration provides for, or the Trustees otherwise propose to effect, (i) any action that would adversely affect in any material respect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Preferred Securities, whether by way of amendment to this Declaration or otherwise, or (ii) the dissolution or liquidation of the Trust, other than pursuant to the terms of this Declaration, then the Holders of Outstanding Preferred Securities will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the approval of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities. Section 6.02. Notice of Meetings. Notice of all meetings of the Holders of the Preferred Securities, stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting, shall be given by the Property Trustee pursuant to Section 10.08 to each Preferred Securityholder of record, at his/her registered address, at least 15 days and not more than 90 days before the meeting. At any such meeting, any business properly before the meeting may be so considered whether or not stated in the notice of the meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. Section 6.03. Meetings of Holders of the Preferred Securities. No annual meeting of Securityholders is required to be held. The Administrative Trustees, however, shall call a meeting of Securityholders to vote on any matter upon the written request of the Holders of at least 25% of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities and the Administrative Trustees or the Property Trustee may, at any time in their discretion, call a 37
meeting of Holders of the Preferred Securities to vote on any matters as to which the Holders of the Preferred Securities are entitled to vote. Holders of a majority of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of Securityholders. If a quorum is present at a meeting, an affirmative vote of the Holders of a majority of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities present, either in person or by proxy, at such meeting shall constitute the action of the Securityholders, unless this Declaration requires a greater number of affirmative votes. Section 6.04. Voting Rights. A Securityholder shall be entitled to one vote for each Trust Security in respect of any matter as to which such Securityholder is entitled to vote. Section 6.05. Proxies, etc. At any meeting of Securityholders, any Securityholder entitled to vote thereat may vote by proxy, provided that no proxy shall be voted at any meeting unless it shall have been placed on file with the Administrative Trustees, or with such other officer or agent of the Trust as the Administrative Trustees may direct, for verification prior to the time at which such vote shall be taken. Pursuant to a resolution of the Property Trustee, proxies may be solicited in the name of the Property Trustee or one or more officers of the Property Trustee. Only Securityholders of record shall be entitled to vote. When Trust Securities are held jointly by several Persons, any one of them may vote at any meeting in person or by proxy in respect of such Trust Securities, but if more than one of them shall be present at such meeting in person or by proxy, and such joint owners or their proxies so present disagree as to any vote to be cast, such vote shall not be received in respect of such Trust Securities. A proxy purporting to be executed by or on behalf of a Securityholder shall be deemed valid unless challenged at or prior to its exercise, and the burden of proving invalidity shall rest on the challenger. No proxy shall be valid more than three years after its date of execution. Section 6.06. Securityholder Action by Written Consent. Any action which may be taken by Securityholders at a meeting may be taken without a meeting and without prior notice if Holders of the proportion of the Outstanding Preferred Securities required to approve such action shall consent to the action in writing. Section 6.07. Record Date for Voting and Other Purposes. For the purposes of determining the Securityholders who are entitled to notice of and to vote at any meeting or by written consent, or for the purpose of any other action, the Administrative Trustees may from time to time fix a date, not more than 90 days prior to the date of any meeting of Securityholders, as a record date for the determination of the identity of the Securityholders for such purposes. Section 6.08. Acts of Securityholders. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Declaration to be given, made or taken by Securityholders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Securityholders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Administrative 38
Trustees. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Securityholders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Declaration and (subject to Section 7.02) conclusive, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him/her the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his/her individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his/her authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which any Trustee receiving the same deems sufficient. The ownership of Preferred Securities shall be proved by the Securities Register. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other act of the Securityholder of any Trust Security shall bind every future Securityholder of the same Trust Security and the Securityholder of every Trust Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustees or the Trust in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Trust Security. Without limiting the foregoing, a Securityholder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Trust Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security or by one or more duly appointed agents, each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such Liquidation Amount. If any dispute shall arise between the Securityholders and the Administrative Trustees or among such Securityholders or Administrative Trustees with respect to the authenticity, validity or binding nature of any request, demand, authorization, direction, consent, waiver or other Act of such Securityholder or Trustee under this Article VI, then the determination of such matter by the Property Trustee shall be conclusive with respect to such matter. Section 6.09. Inspection of Records. Upon reasonable notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee, the records of the Trust shall be open to inspection by Securityholders during normal business hours for any purpose reasonably related to such Securityholder's interest as a Securityholder. ARTICLE VII The Trustees Section 7.01. Certain Duties and Responsibilities. (a) The duties and responsibilities of the Trustees shall be as provided by this Declaration and, in the case of the Property Trustee, also by the Trust Indenture Act. The Property Trustee, other than during the occurrence and 39
continuance of an Event of Default, undertakes to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Declaration and, upon an Event of Default, must exercise the same degree of care and skill as a prudent person would exercise or use in the conduct of his/her own affairs. The Trustees shall have all the privileges, rights and immunities provided by the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Declaration shall require the Trustees to expend or risk their own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of their duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of their rights or powers, if they shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Declaration relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustees shall be subject to the provisions of this Section. Nothing in this Declaration shall be construed to release the Property Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct. To the extent that, at law or in equity, the Trustees have duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities relating thereto to the Trust or to the Securityholders, the Trustees shall not be liable to the Trust or to any Securityholder for the Trustees' good faith reliance on the provisions of this Declaration. The provisions of this Declaration, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of the Trustees otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Depositor and the Securityholders to replace such other duties and liabilities of the Trustees. (b) All payments made by the Property Trustee or any other Paying Agent in respect of the Trust Securities shall be made only from the income and proceeds from the Trust Property. Each Securityholder, by its acceptance of a Trust Security, agrees that (i) it will look solely to the income and proceeds from the Trust Property to the extent available for distribution to it as herein provided and (ii) the Trustees are not personally liable to it for any amount distributable in respect of any Trust Security or for any other liability in respect of any Trust Security. This Section 7.01(b) does not limit the liability of the Trustees expressly set forth elsewhere in this Declaration or, in the case of the Property Trustee, in the Trust Indenture Act. Section 7.02. Notice of Defaults; Direct Action by Securityholders. Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Event of Default actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 10.08, notice of such Event of Default to the Securityholders, the Administrative Trustees and the Depositor, unless such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived. If the Property Trustee has failed to enforce its rights under this Declaration or the Indenture to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the terms of this Declaration and the Indenture after a Securityholder has made a written request therefor, any Securityholder may institute a legal proceeding directly to enforce the Property Trustee's rights under this Declaration or the Indenture with respect to Notes having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Preferred Securities of such Securityholder without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Property Trustee or any other Person. To the extent that any action under the Indenture is entitled to be taken by the holders of at least a specified percentage of the principal amount of the outstanding Notes, Holders of at least the same percentage of the Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities may also take such action in the name of the Trust if such action has not been taken by the Property Trustee. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the foregoing shall be in addition to and not in limitation of any direct rights provided to the Holders of the Preferred Securities against the Note Issuer under the terms of the 40
Indenture, including the right, without any notice or other demand on the Property Trustee, to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on Notes as provided in Section 508 of the Indenture. Section 7.03. Certain Rights of Property Trustee. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01: (a) the Property Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting in good faith upon any resolution, Opinion of Counsel, certificate, written representation of a Holder or transferee, certificate of auditors or any other certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, appraisal, bond, Note, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) if, other than during the occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default, (i) in performing its duties under this Declaration, the Property Trustee is required to decide between alternative courses of action or (ii) in construing any of the provisions in this Declaration, the Property Trustee finds the same ambiguous or inconsistent with any other provisions contained herein or (iii) the Property Trustee is unsure of the application of any provision of this Declaration, then, except as to any matter as to which the Holders of the Preferred Securities are entitled to vote under the terms of this Declaration, the Property Trustee shall deliver a notice to the Depositor requesting written instructions of the Depositor as to the course of action to be taken. The Property Trustee shall take such action, or refrain from taking such action, as the Property Trustee shall be instructed in writing to take, or to refrain from taking, by the Depositor; provided, however, that if the Property Trustee does not receive such instructions of the Depositor within ten Business Days after it has delivered such notice, or such reasonably shorter period of time set forth in such notice (which to the extent practicable shall not be less than two Business Days), it may, but shall be under no duty to, take or refrain from taking such action not inconsistent with this Declaration as it shall deem advisable and in the best interests of the Securityholders, in which event the Property Trustee shall have no liability except for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct; (c) the Property Trustee may consult with counsel or other experts of its selection and the advice or opinion of such counsel or other experts with respect to legal matters or advice within the scope of such experts' area of expertise shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; (d) the Property Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Declaration at the request or direction of any of the Securityholders pursuant to this Declaration, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Property Trustee security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities reasonably satisfactory to the Property Trustee which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (e) the Property Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, approval, bond, Note, note or other evidence of indebtedness 41
or other paper or document, but the Property Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit; (f) the Property Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys and the Property Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; (g) whenever in the administration of this Declaration, the Property Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Property Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate; (h) the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Declaration; (i) the Property Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Property Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Property Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office and such notice references the Trust Securities and this Declaration; (j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Property Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Property Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and (k) the Property Trustee may request that the Depositor deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Declaration, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded. Section 7.04. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the Trust, and the Trustees do not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustees shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Depositor of the proceeds of the Notes. The Property Trustee makes no representations as to the value or condition of the property of the Trust or any part thereof. The Property Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Declaration or the Trust Securities. Section 7.05. May Hold Securities. Any Trustee or any other agent of any Trustee or the Trust, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Trust Securities and, subject to Sections 7.08 and 7.13 and, except as provided in the definition of the term Outstanding in Article I, may otherwise deal with the Trust with the same rights it would have if it were not a Trustee or such other agent. 42
Section 7.06. Compensation; Indemnity; Fees. The Depositor agrees: (a) to pay to the Trustees from time to time such compensation as shall have been agreed in writing with the Depositor for all services rendered by them hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustees upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustees in accordance with any provision of this Declaration (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct (or, in the case of the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee, any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to his/her gross negligence); and (c) to indemnify each of the Trustees or any predecessor Trustee for, and to hold the Trustees harmless against, any and all loss, damage, claims, liability, penalty or expense including taxes (other than taxes based on the income of such Trustee) incurred without its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its willful misconduct (or, in the case of the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee, incurred without gross negligence or bad faith), arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Declaration, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether by the Depositor, any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. No Trustee may claim any Lien or charge on any Trust Property as a result of any amount due pursuant to this Section 7.06. The provisions of this Section 7.06 shall survive the termination of this Declaration and the resignation or removal of the Trustees. Section 7.07. Corporate Property Trustee Required; Eligibility of Trustees. (a) There shall at all times be a Property Trustee hereunder. The Property Trustee shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Property Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. (b) There shall at all times be one or more Administrative Trustees hereunder. Each Administrative Trustees shall be either a natural person who is at least 21 years of age or a legal entity that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind that entity. 43
(c) There shall at all times be a Delaware Trustee. The Delaware Trustee shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 years of age and a resident of the State of Delaware or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the State of Delaware and that otherwise meets the requirements of applicable Delaware law that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Declaration, the Delaware Trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any powers, nor shall the Delaware Trustee have any of the duties and responsibilities of the other Trustees described in this Declaration. The Delaware Trustee shall be a trustee of the Trust for the sole and limited purpose of fulfilling the requirements of Section 3807(a) of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. Section 7.08. Conflicting Interests. If the Property Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Property Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Declaration. Section 7.09. Co-Trustees and Separate Trustee. Unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, at any time or times, for the purpose of meeting the legal requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or of any jurisdiction in which any part of the Trust Property may at the time be located, the Depositor and the Administrative Trustees (and if more than one Administrative Trustees, by agreed action of the majority of such Trustees) shall have power (i) to appoint, and upon the written request of the Administrative Trustees the Depositor shall for such purpose join with the Administrative Trustees in the execution, delivery, and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to appoint one or more Persons approved by the Property Trustee either to act as co-trustee, jointly with the Property Trustee, of all or any part of such Trust Property, or to the extent required by law to act as separate trustee of any such property, in either case with such powers as may be provided in the instrument of appointment, and (ii) to vest in such Person or Persons in the capacity aforesaid, any property, title, right or power deemed necessary or desirable, subject to the other provisions of this Section. If the Depositor does not join in such appointment within 15 days after the receipt by it of a request so to do, or in case a Note Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee alone shall have power to make such appointment. Any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed pursuant to this Section shall either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 years of age and a resident of the United States or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business in the United States that shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity. Should any written instrument from the Depositor be required by any co-trustee or separate trustee so appointed for more fully confirming to such co-trustee or separate trustee such property, title, right, or power, any and all such instruments shall, on request, be executed, acknowledged, and delivered by the Depositor. Every co-trustee or separate trustee shall, to the extent permitted by law, but to such extent only, be appointed subject to the following terms, namely: (a) The Trust Securities shall be executed and delivered and all rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereunder in respect of the custody of securities, cash and other personal 44
property held by, or required to be deposited or pledged with, the Trustees specified hereunder, shall be exercised, solely by such Trustees and not by such co-trustee or separate trustee. (b) The rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereby conferred or imposed upon the Property Trustee in respect of any property covered by such appointment shall be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Property Trustee or by the Property Trustee and such co-trustee or separate trustee jointly, as shall be provided in the instrument appointing such co-trustee or separate trustee, except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act is to be performed, the Property Trustee shall be incompetent or unqualified to perform such act, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed by such co-trustee or separate trustee. (c) The Property Trustee at any time, by an instrument in writing executed by it, with the written concurrence of the Depositor, may accept the resignation of or remove any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed under this Section, and, in case an Event of Default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall have power to accept the resignation of, or remove, any such co-trustee or separate trustee without the concurrence of the Depositor. Upon the written request of the Property Trustee, the Depositor shall join with the Property Trustee in the execution, delivery, and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to effectuate such resignation or removal. A successor to any co-trustee or separate trustee so resigned or removed may be appointed in the manner provided in this Section. (d) No co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of the Property Trustee, or any other trustee hereunder. (e) The Property Trustee shall not be liable by reason of any act of a co-trustee or separate trustee. (f) Any Act of Holders delivered to the Property Trustee shall be deemed to have been delivered to each such co-trustee and separate trustee. Section 7.10. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. No resignation or removal of any Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 7.11. Subject to the immediately preceding paragraph, any Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Trust Securities by giving written notice thereof to the Securityholders. Unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, any Trustee may be removed at any time by Act of the Holder of the Common Securities. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, or both of them, may be removed at such time only by Act of the Holders of a majority in Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities, delivered to such Trustee (in its individual capacity and on behalf of the Trust). The Administrative Trustees may be removed at any time by the Holder of Common Securities only. 45
If the instrument of acceptance by the successor Trustee required by Section 7.11 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation or removal, the Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Depositor, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. If any Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting as Trustee, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of any Trustee for any cause, at a time when no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Holder of Common Securities, by Act of the Holder of Common Securities delivered to the retiring Trustee, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees and the Trust and the retiring Trustee shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 7.11. If the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of continuing to act as the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, as the case may be, at a time when an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Holders of Preferred Securities, by Act of the Securityholders of a majority in Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities delivered to the retiring Trustee, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees, and such successor Trustee shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 7.11. If any Administrative Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting as an Administrative Trustee at a time when an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Holder of Common Securities shall appoint a successor Administrative Trustee. If no successor Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holder of Common Securities or the Holders of Preferred Securities and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 7.11, any Securityholder who has been a Securityholder of Trust Securities for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. The Property Trustee shall give notice of each removal of a Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Securityholders in the manner provided in Section 10.08 and shall give notice to the Depositor. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office if it is the Property Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Declaration, in the event any Administrative Trustee or the Delaware Trustee who is a natural person dies or becomes, in the opinion of the Depositor, incompetent or incapacitated, the vacancy created by such death, incompetence or incapacity may be filled by (a) the unanimous act of the remaining Administrative Trustees if there are at least two of them or (b) otherwise by the Depositor (with the successor in each case being a Person who satisfies the eligibility requirements for Administrative Trustees or for the Delaware Trustee, as the case may be, set forth in Section 7.07). Section 7.11. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee, the retiring Trustee (if requested by the Depositor) and each successor Trustee shall execute and deliver to the Trust and the retiring Trustee an amendment hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (a) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee and (b) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Declaration as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood 46
that nothing herein or in such amendment shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee and upon the execution and delivery of such amendment the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee and the Trust; but, on request of the Trust or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all Trust Property, all proceeds thereof and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Trust shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the preceding paragraph. No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article. Section 7.12. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any Person into which any of the Trustees may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of such Trustee, shall be the successor of such Trustee hereunder, provided such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. Section 7.13. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Depositor or Trust. If and when the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall be or become a creditor (whether directly or indirectly, secured or unsecured) of the Depositor or the Trust (or any other obligor upon the Notes or the Trust Securities), including under the terms of Section 7.05 hereof, the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, as the case may be, shall be subject to and shall take all actions necessary in order to comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Depositor or Trust (or any such other obligor). Section 7.14. Reports by Property Trustee. The Property Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Property Trustee and its actions under this Declaration as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Property Trustee shall, within 60 days after each May 31 following the date of this Declaration deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such May 31, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a). A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Property Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Preferred Securities are then listed, with the Commission and with the Trust. The Trust will promptly notify the Property Trustee when any Preferred Securities are listed on any stock exchange. 47
Section 7.15. Reports to the Property Trustee. The Depositor and the Administrative Trustees on behalf of the Trust shall provide to the Property Trustee such documents, reports and information as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act (if any) and the compliance certificate required by Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act in the form, in the manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Property Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Property Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Trust's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Property Trustee is entitled to conclusively rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). Section 7.16. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent. The Depositor and any Administrative Trustee on behalf of the Trust shall provide to the Property Trustee evidence of compliance with the conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Declaration that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 7.17. Statements Required in Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel. Each Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Declaration shall include: (1) a statement that each Person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such Person, such Person has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, such covenant or condition has been complied with; provided, however, that with respect to matters of fact not involving any legal conclusion, an Opinion of Counsel may rely on an Officers' Certificate or certificates of public officials. Section 7.18. Number of Trustees. (a) The number of Trustees shall initially be five, provided that the Holder of all of the Common Securities by written instrument may increase or decrease the number of Administrative Trustees provided that there be at least one Administrative Trustee. During any period in which the number of Administrative Trustees is more than one, any Administrative Trustees may act on behalf of the Trust. (b) If a Trustee ceases to hold office for any reason and a vacancy shall occur, the vacancy shall be filled with a Trustee appointed in accordance with Section 7.10. 48
(c) The death, dissolution, termination, resignation, retirement, removal, bankruptcy, incompetence or incapacity to perform the duties of a Trustee shall not operate to annul, dissolve or terminate the Trust. Whenever a vacancy shall occur, until such vacancy is filled by the appointment of an Administrative Trustee in accordance with Section 7.10, the Administrative Trustees in office, regardless of their number (and notwithstanding any other provision of this Declaration), shall have all the powers granted to the Administrative Trustees and shall discharge all the duties imposed upon the Administrative Trustees by this Declaration. Section 7.19. Delegation of Power. (a) Any Administrative Trustee may, by power of attorney consistent with applicable law, delegate to any natural person over the age of 21 his/her power for the purpose of executing any documents contemplated in Section 2.07(a), including any registration statement or amendment thereto filed with the Commission, or making any other governmental filing; and (b) the Administrative Trustees shall have power to delegate from time to time to such of their number, if there is more than one Administrative Trustee, or to the Depositor the doing of such things and the execution of such instruments either in the name of the Trust or the names of the Administrative Trustees or otherwise as the Administrative Trustees may deem expedient, to the extent such delegation is not prohibited by applicable law or contrary to the provisions of the Trust, as set forth herein. Section 7.20. Voting. Except as otherwise provided in this Declaration, the consent or vote of the Trustees shall be approved by the Administrative Trustees or, if more than one, by a majority of the Administrative Trustees. ARTICLE VIII Dissolution and Liquidation Section 8.01. Dissolution Upon Expiration Date. Unless earlier dissolved, the Trust shall automatically dissolve on November 16, 2009 (the "Expiration Date"). Section 8.02. Early Termination. The earliest to occur of any of the following events is an "Early Termination Event," upon the occurrence of which the Trust shall dissolve: (a) the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event in respect of, or the dissolution or liquidation of, the Depositor or an acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture; (b) the election of the Depositor to dissolve the Trust and, after satisfaction of creditors as required by applicable law, cause the distribution of a Like Amount of Notes to the Holders of the Trust Securities; (c) the redemption, at mandatory redemption or upon the occurrence of a Tax Event, of all of the Trust Securities; and (d) an order for dissolution of the Trust shall have been entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. 49
The election of the Depositor pursuant to Section 8.02(b) shall be made by the Depositor giving written notice to the Trustees not less than 30 days prior to the date of distribution of the Notes. Such notice shall specify the date of distribution of the Notes and shall be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel that such event will not be a taxable event to the Holders of the Trust Securities for United States Federal income tax purposes. Section 8.03. Termination. The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Trustees and the Trust shall terminate upon the latest to occur of the following: (a) the distribution by the Property Trustee to Securityholders upon the winding up of the Trust pursuant to Section 8.04 of all amounts required to be distributed hereunder upon the final payment of the Trust Securities; (b) the payment of any expenses owed by the Trust; and (c) the discharge of all administrative duties of the Administrative Trustees, including the performance of any tax reporting obligations with respect to the Trust or the Securityholders and the filing of the Certificate of Cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. Section 8.04. Winding Up. (a) If an Early Termination Event specified in clause (a) or (d) of Section 8.02 occurs or upon the Expiration Date, the Trust shall be wound up by the Trustees as expeditiously as the Trustees determine to be possible by distributing, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to each Securityholder a Like Amount of Notes, subject to Section 8.04(d). If an Early Termination Event specified in clause (b) occurs, the Trust shall be liquidated by the Trustee on the date of distribution of the Notes specified by the Depositor in its notice delivered pursuant to Section 8.02. Notice of liquidation shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not later than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Liquidation Date to each Holder of Trust Securities at such Holder's address appearing in the Securities Register. All notices of liquidation shall: (i) state the Liquidation Date; (ii) state that from and after the Liquidation Date, the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding and any Trust Securities Certificates not surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Notes; and (iii) provide such information with respect to the mechanics by which Holders may exchange Trust Securities Certificates for certificates evidencing Notes, or, if Section 8.04(d) applies, receive a Liquidation Distribution, as the Administrative Trustees or the Property Trustee shall deem appropriate. (b) In order to effect the winding up of the Trust and distribution of the Notes to Securityholders, the Property Trustee, either itself acting as exchange agent or through the appointment of a separate exchange agent, shall establish such procedures as it shall deem appropriate to effect the distribution of Notes in exchange for the Outstanding Trust Securities Certificates. (c) Except where Section 8.02(c) applies, on or after the Liquidation Date, (i) the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding, (ii) certificates representing a Like Amount of Notes will be issued to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates, upon surrender of 50
such certificates to the Administrative Trustees or its agent for exchange, (iii) the Depositor shall use its best efforts to have the Notes listed on the New York Stock Exchange or such other exchange as the Preferred Securities are then listed and shall take any reasonable action necessary to effect the distribution of the Notes, (iv) any Trust Securities Certificates not so surrendered for exchange will be deemed to represent a Like Amount of Notes, accruing interest at the rate then borne by the Notes from the last Distribution Date on which a Distribution was made on such Trust Certificates until such certificates are so surrendered (and until such certificates are so surrendered, no payments or interest or principal will be made to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates with respect to such Notes) and (v) all rights of Securityholders holding Trust Securities will cease, except the right of such Securityholders to receive Notes upon surrender of Trust Securities Certificates. (d) In the event that, notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 8.04, whether because of an order for dissolution entered by a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, distribution of the Notes in the manner provided herein is determined by the Property Trustee not to be practical, the Trust Property shall be liquidated, and the Trust shall be terminated, by the Property Trustee in such manner as the Property Trustee determines. In such event, Securityholders will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Trust available for distribution to Securityholders, after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, an amount equal to the Liquidation Amount per Trust Security plus accumulated and unpaid Distributions thereon to the date of payment (such amount being the "Liquidation Distribution"). If, upon any such dissolution, the Liquidation Distribution can be paid only in part because the Trust has insufficient assets available to pay in full the aggregate Liquidation Distribution, then, subject to the next succeeding sentence, the amounts payable by the Trust on the Trust Securities shall be paid on a pro rata basis (based upon Liquidation Amounts). The Holder of the Common Securities will be entitled to receive Liquidation Distributions upon any such dissolution pro rata (determined as aforesaid) with Holders of Preferred Securities, except that, if a Note Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Preferred Securities shall have a priority over the Common Securities, and no Liquidation Distribution will be paid to the Holders of the Common Securities unless and until receipt by all Holders of the Preferred Securities of the entire Liquidation Distribution payable in respect thereof. ARTICLE IX Mergers, Etc. Section 9.01. Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations or Replacements of the Trust. The Trust may not merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by, or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any Person, except as described below. The Trust may, at the request of the Depositor, with the consent of the Administrative Trustees and without the consent of the Holders of the Trust Securities, merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by, a trust organized as such under the laws of any State; provided, that (i) such successor entity either (a) expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Trust with respect to the Trust Securities or (b) substitutes for the Trust Securities other securities having substantially the same terms as the Trust Securities (the "Successor Securities") so long as the Successor Securities rank the same as the Trust Securities rank with respect to the payment of Distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise, (ii) the Depositor expressly appoints a trustee of such 51
successor entity possessing the same powers and duties as the Property Trustee as the holder of the Notes, (iii) the Successor Securities are listed, or any Successor Securities will be listed upon notification of issuance, on any national securities exchange or other organization on which the Trust Securities are then listed or quoted, (iv) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not cause the Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities) to be downgraded, placed under surveillance or review or withdrawn by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, (v) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the Holders of the Trust Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect, (vi) such successor entity has a purpose substantially similar to that of the Trust, (vii) prior to such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, transfer or lease, the Depositor and the Property Trustee have received an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that (a) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the Holders of the Trust Securities (including any Successor Securities) in any material respect, and (b) following such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, neither the Trust nor such successor entity will be required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act and the Trust (or the successor entity) will continue to be classified as a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes and (viii) the Depositor or any permitted successor assignee owns all of the common securities of such successor entity and guarantees the obligations of such successor entity under the Successor Securities at least to the extent provided by the Guarantee and this Declaration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trust shall not, except with the consent of all Holders of the Trust Securities, merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to, any other entity or permit any other entity to consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or replace it if such consolidation, conversion, amalgamation, merger, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease would cause the Trust or the successor entity not to be classified as a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes or would cause each Holder of Trust Securities not to be treated as owning an undivided beneficial ownership interest in the Notes. ARTICLE X Miscellaneous Provisions Section 10.01. Limitation of Rights of Securityholders. The death, dissolution or incapacity of any Person having an interest, beneficial or otherwise, in Trust Securities shall not operate to terminate this Declaration, nor dissolve, annul or terminate the Trust, nor entitle the legal representatives or heirs of such Person or any Securityholder for such Person, to claim an accounting, take any action or bring any proceeding in any court for a partition or winding-up of the arrangements contemplated hereby, nor otherwise affect the rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties hereto or any of them. Section 10.02. Amendment. (a) This Declaration may be amended from time to time by the Trustees and the Depositor, without the consent of any Securityholders, to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or make any other change which does not adversely affect in any material respect 52
the interests of any Holder of Preferred Securities. Notice of any amendments of this Declaration pursuant to Section 10.02(a) shall be given to the Securityholders. (b) Except as provided in Section 10.02(a) and 10.02(c) hereof, any provision of this Declaration may be amended by the Trustees and the Depositor with the consent of Holders of a majority of the aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Preferred Securities. (c) In addition to and notwithstanding any other provision in this Declaration, without the consent of each affected Securityholder, this Declaration may not be amended to (i) change the amount, timing or currency of any Distribution or Liquidation Distribution on the Trust Securities or otherwise adversely affect the method of payment of any Distribution or Liquidation Distribution required to be made in respect of the Trust Securities as of a specified date; (ii) change the redemption provisions of the Trust Securities; (iii) restrict the right of a Securityholder to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment contemplated in (i) or (ii) above on or after the related date; (iv) modify the first sentence of Section 2.06 hereof; (v) authorize or issue any beneficial interest in the Trust other than as contemplated by this Declaration; (vi) change the conditions precedent for the Depositor to elect to dissolve the Trust and distribute the Notes to Holders of Preferred Securities as set forth in Section 8.02; or (vii) affect the limited liability of any Holder of Preferred Securities, and, notwithstanding any other provision herein, without the unanimous consent of the Securityholders, paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section 10.02 may not be amended. (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Declaration, no amendment to this Declaration shall be made without receipt by the Trust of an Opinion of Counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that such amendment will not affect the Trust's status as a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes or its exemption from regulation as an "investment company" under the 1940 Act. (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Declaration to the contrary, without the consent of the Depositor, this Declaration may not be amended in a manner which imposes any additional obligation on the Depositor. (f) In the event that any amendment to this Declaration is made, the Administrative Trustees shall promptly provide to the Depositor a copy of such amendment. (g) In executing any amendment to the Declaration, the Property Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 8.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Declaration. Except as contemplated by Section 7.11, a Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any amendment to this Declaration which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Declaration or otherwise. Section 10.03. Severability. In case any provision in this Declaration or in the Trust Securities Certificates shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 10.04. Governing Law. THIS DECLARATION AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF EACH OF THE SECURITYHOLDERS, THE TRUST, THE DEPOSITOR 53
AND THE TRUSTEES WITH RESPECT TO THIS DECLARATION AND THE TRUST SECURITIES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES. Section 10.05. Payments Due on Non-Business Day. If the date fixed for any payment on any Trust Security shall be a day which is not a Business Day, then such payment may be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payments shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as though made on the date fixed for such payment. Section 10.06. Successors and Assigns. This Declaration shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to the Trust or successor Trustee or both, including any successor by operation of law. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Depositor that is permitted under Article V of the Indenture and pursuant to which the assignee agrees in writing to perform the Depositor's obligations hereunder, the Depositor shall not assign its obligations hereunder. Section 10.07. Headings. The Article and Section headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Declaration. Section 10.08. Reports, Notices and Demands. Any report, notice, demand or other communication which by any provision of this Declaration is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon any Securityholder or the Depositor may be given or served in writing by deposit thereof, first-class postage prepaid in the United States mail, hand delivery or facsimile transmission, in each case, addressed, (a) in the case of a Holder of a Preferred Security, to such Holder of a Preferred Security as such Securityholder's name and address may appear on the Securities Register; and (b) in the case of the Holder of a Common Security or the Depositor, to Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07101, Attention: Treasurer, facsimile no.: 973-242-1651. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon a Securityholder shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, upon hand delivery, mailing or transmission. Any notice, demand or other communication which by any provision of this Declaration is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee or the Administrative Trustees shall be given in writing addressed (until another address is published by the Trust) as follows: (a) with respect to the Property Trustee to Wachovia Bank, National Association, 21 South Street, Morristown, New Jersey 07960, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration; (b) with respect to the Delaware Trustee, to Wachovia Trust Company, National Association, One Rodney Square, 920 King Street, Suite 102, Wilmington, Delaware 19801; and (c) with respect to the Administrative Trustees, to the address above for notices to the Depositor, marked "Attention: Administrative Trustee of PSEG Funding Trust I c/o Treasurer." Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt of the writing by the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee. 54
Section 10.09. Agreement Not to Petition. Each of the Trustees and the Depositor agree for the benefit of the Securityholders that, until at least one year and one day after the Trust has been terminated in accordance with Article VIII, they shall not file, or join in the filing of, a petition against the Trust under any Bankruptcy Laws or otherwise join in the commencement of any proceeding against the Trust under any Bankruptcy Law. In the event the Depositor or any of the Trustees takes action in violation of this Section 10.09, the Property Trustee agrees, for the benefit of Securityholders, that at the expense of the Depositor, it shall file an answer with the bankruptcy court or otherwise properly contest the filing of such petition by the Depositor or any of the Trustees, as applicable, against the Trust or the commencement of such action and raise the defense that the Depositor and each of the Trustees has agreed in writing not to take such action and should be stopped and precluded therefrom and such other defenses, if any, as counsel for the Property Trustee or the Trust may assert. The provisions of this Section 10.09 shall survive the termination of this Declaration. Section 10.10. Trust Indenture Act; Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. (a) This Declaration is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Declaration and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions. (b) The Property Trustee shall be the only Trustee which is a trustee for the purposes of the Trust Indenture Act. (c) If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Declaration by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control. If any provision of this Declaration modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Declaration as so modified or excluded, as the case may be. (d) The application of the Trust Indenture Act to this Declaration shall not affect the nature of the Trust Securities as equity securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. Section 10.11. Acceptance of Terms of Declaration, Guarantee and Indenture. THE RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE OF A TRUST SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST THEREIN BY OR ON BEHALF OF A SECURITYHOLDER OR ANY BENEFICIAL OWNER, WITHOUT ANY SIGNATURE OR FURTHER MANIFESTATION OF ASSENT, SHALL CONSTITUTE THE UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE BY THE SECURITYHOLDER AND ALL OTHERS HAVING A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN SUCH TRUST SECURITY OF ALL THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS DECLARATION AND AGREEMENT TO THE SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS AND OTHER TERMS OF THE GUARANTEE AND THE INDENTURE, AND SHALL CONSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT OF THE TRUST, SUCH SECURITYHOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS THAT THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS DECLARATION SHALL BE BINDING, OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE AS BETWEEN THE TRUST AND SUCH SECURITYHOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS. 55
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, as Depositor By:____________________________ Name: Title: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Property Trustee By:____________________________ Name: Title: WACHOVIA TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Delaware Trustee By:____________________________ Name: Title: _______________________________, as Administrative Trustee Name: _______________________________, as Administrative Trustee Name: _______________________________, as Administrative Trustee Name: 56
EXHIBIT A CERTIFICATE OF TRUST OF PSEG FUNDING TRUST I THIS CERTIFICATE OF TRUST of PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust"), dated March 18, 2002, is being duly executed and filed by the undersigned, as trustees, to form a statutory trust under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (12 Del. C.ss.3801 et seq.) (the "Act"). (i) Name. The name of the statutory trust being formed hereby is PSEG Funding Trust I. (ii) Delaware Trustee. The name and business address of the trustee of the Trust in the State of Delaware are First Union Trust Company, National Association, One Rodney Square, 920 King Street, Suite 102, Wilmington, Delaware 19801. (iii) Counterparts. This Certificate of Trust may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. (iv) Effective Date. This Certificate of Trust shall be effective as of its filing with the Secretary of State of Delaware. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being the trustees of the Trust, have executed this Certificate of Trust as of the date first above written in accordance with Section 3811(a) of the Act. FIRST UNION TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By:_____________________________ Name: Sterling C. Correia Title: Vice President Mark G. Kahrer, as Trustee ________________________________ A-1
EXHIBIT B THIS CERTIFICATE IS NOT TRANSFERABLE THE RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE OF A COMMON SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN BY OR ON BEHALF OF A SECURITYHOLDER OR ANY BENEFICIAL OWNER, WITHOUT ANY SIGNATURE OR FURTHER MANIFESTATION OF ASSENT, SHALL CONSTITUTE THE UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE BY THE SECURITYHOLDER AND ALL OTHERS HAVING A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN SUCH COMMON SECURITY OF ALL THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THE DECLARATION AND AGREEMENT TO THE SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS AND OTHER TERMS OF THE GUARANTEE AND THE INDENTURE, AND SHALL CONSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT OF THE TRUST, SUCH SECURITYHOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS THAT THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THE DECLARATION SHALL BE BINDING, OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE AS BETWEEN THE TRUST AND SUCH SECURITYHOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS. Certificate Number __-1 Number of Common Securities: Aggregate Liquidation Amount: Certificate Evidencing Common Securities of PSEG Funding Trust I Common Securities (liquidation amount $50 per Common Security) PSEG Funding Trust I, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (the "Holder") is the registered holder of 284,537 common securities of the Trust representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust and designated as the Common Securities (liquidation amount $50 per Common Security) (the "Common Securities"). This certificate is, and the Common Securities are, not transferable and any attempted transfer hereof shall be void. The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Common Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Common Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Trust dated as of September 10, 2002, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Declaration"). The Trust will furnish a copy of the Declaration and the Indenture to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office. B-1
Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Declaration and is entitled to the benefits thereunder. By acceptance, the Holder agrees to treat, for United States Federal income tax purposes, the Notes as indebtedness of the Depositor and the Common Securities as evidence of an undivided beneficial interest in the Notes. This Certificate shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. B-2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has executed this certificate this 10th day of September, 2002. PSEG FUNDING TRUST I By:_______________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee B-3
EXHIBIT C THE RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE OF A PREFERRED SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN BY OR ON BEHALF OF A SECURITYHOLDER OR ANY BENEFICIAL OWNER, WITHOUT ANY SIGNATURE OR FURTHER MANIFESTATION OF ASSENT, SHALL CONSTITUTE THE UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE BY THE SECURITYHOLDER AND ALL OTHERS HAVING A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN SUCH PREFERRED SECURITY OF ALL THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THE DECLARATION AND AGREEMENT TO THE SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS AND OTHER TERMS OF THE GUARANTEE AND THE INDENTURE, AND SHALL CONSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT OF THE TRUST, SUCH SECURITYHOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS THAT THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THE DECLARATION SHALL BE BINDING, OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE AS BETWEEN THE TRUST AND SUCH SECURITYHOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS. [To be included in Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate- This Preferred Security is a Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate within the meaning of the Declaration previously referred to and is registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository") or a nominee of the Depository. This Preferred Security is exchangeable for Preferred Securities registered in the name of a person or entity other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Declaration and no transfer of this Preferred Security (other than a transfer of this Preferred Security as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository) may be registered except in limited circumstances. Unless this Preferred Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation, (55 Water Street, New York) to PSEG Funding Trust I or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Preferred Security issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.] C-1
Certificate Number:_____ Number of Preferred Securities: Aggregate Liquidation Amount: CUSIP NO. Certificate Evidencing Preferred Securities of PSEG Funding Trust I Preferred Securities, (liquidation amount $50 per Preferred Security) PSEG Funding Trust I, a statutory trust created under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that [For inclusion in Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate only - Cede & Co.] [For inclusion in Pledged Preferred Securities - Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement] (the "Holder") is the registered holder of 9,200,000 preferred securities of the Trust representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust and designated the PSEG Funding Trust I 6.25% Preferred Securities (liquidation amount $50 per Preferred Security) (the "Preferred Securities") or such other number of Preferred Securities as is reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases attached hereto. Subject to the terms of the Declaration (as defined below), the Preferred Securities are transferable on the books and records of the Trust, in person or by a duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in proper form for transfer as provided in Section 5.04 of the Declaration. The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and provisions of the Preferred Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and the Preferred Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Trust dated as of September 10, 2002, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Declaration"). The Holder is entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee Agreement entered into by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation, and Wachovia Bank, National Association as guarantee trustee, dated as of September 10, 2002 (as the same may be amended from time to time, the "Guarantee") to the extent provided therein, together with the obligations of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated under the Declaration, its Notes and the Indenture related to such Notes. The Trust will furnish a copy of the Declaration, the Guarantee and the Indenture to the Holder without charge upon written request to the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office. Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Declaration and is entitled to the benefits thereunder. C-2
By acceptance, the Holder agrees to treat, for United States Federal income tax purposes, the Notes as indebtedness of the Depositor and the Preferred Securities as evidence of undivided beneficial interests in the Notes. This Certificate shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Declaration. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trust has executed this certificate this 10th day of September, 2002. PSEG FUNDING TRUST I By:________________________________ Name: Title: Administrative Trustee C-3
ASSIGNMENT FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers to: (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number) (Insert address and zip code of assignee) __________ Preferred Securities represented by this Preferred Securities Certificate and irrevocably appoints agent to transfer said Preferred Securities on the books of the Trust. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her. Date: Signature: (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Preferred Security Certificate) C-4
[TO BE ATTACHED TO BOOK-ENTRY PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE AND PLEDGED PREFERRED SECURITIES] SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES The following increases or decreases in this [Book-Entry Preferred Securities Certificate] [Pledged Preferred Security] have been made:

Exhibit 4.5 Preferred Trust Securities Guarantee Agreement between PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED (as Guarantor) and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (as Guarantee Trustee) Dated as of September 10, 2002
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE* Section of Section of Trust Indenture Act Guarantee of 1939, as amended Agreement - ------------------- --------- 310(a).................................................... 4.01(a) 310(b).................................................... 4.01(c), 2.08 310(c).................................................... Inapplicable 311(a).................................................... 2.02(b) 311(b).................................................... 2.02(b) 311(c).................................................... Inapplicable 312(a).................................................... 2.02(a) 312(b).................................................... 2.02(b) 313....................................................... 2.03 314(a).................................................... 2.04 314(b).................................................... Inapplicable 314(c).................................................... 2.05 314(d).................................................... Inapplicable 314(e).................................................... 1.01, 2.05, 3.02 314(f).................................................... 2.01, 3.02 315(a).................................................... 3.01(d) 315(b).................................................... 2.07 315(c).................................................... 3.01 315(d).................................................... 3.01(d) 316(a).................................................... 1.01, 2.06, 5.04 316(b).................................................... 5.03 316(c).................................................... 8.02 317(a).................................................... Inapplicable 317(b).................................................... Inapplicable 318(a).................................................... 2.01(b) 318(b).................................................... 2.01 318(c).................................................... 2.01(a) - ------------- * This Cross-Reference Table does not constitute part of the Guarantee Agreement and shall not affect the interpretation of any of its terms or provisions. (i)
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page ---- ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.01. Definitions.....................................................2 ARTICLE II TRUST INDENTURE ACT Section 2.01. Trust Indenture Act; Application................................4 Section 2.02. Reports by the Guarantee Trustee................................4 Section 2.03. Periodic Reports to Guarantee Trustee...........................4 Section 2.04. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent................4 Section 2.05. Events of Default; Waiver.......................................5 Section 2.06. Event of Default; Notice........................................5 ARTICLE III POWERS, DUTIES AND RIGHTS OF THE GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 3.01. Powers and Duties of the Guarantee Trustee......................5 Section 3.02. Certain Rights of Guarantee Trustee.............................7 Section 3.03. Indemnity.......................................................8 ARTICLE IV GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 4.01. Guarantee Trustee; Eligibility..................................8 Section 4.02. Appointment, Removal and Resignation of the Guarantee Trustee...............................................9 ARTICLE V GUARANTEE Section 5.01. Guarantee......................................................10 Section 5.02. Waiver of Notice and Demand....................................10 Section 5.03. Obligations Not Affected.......................................10 Section 5.04. Rights of Holders..............................................11 Section 5.05. Guarantee of Payment...........................................11 Section 5.06. Subrogation....................................................11 Section 5.07. Independent Obligations........................................11 (ii)
ARTICLE VI COVENANTS Section 6.01. Ranking........................................................12 Section 6.02. Limitation of Transactions.....................................12 ARTICLE VII TERMINATION Section 7.01. Termination....................................................13 ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.01. Successors and Assigns.........................................13 Section 8.02. Amendments.....................................................13 Section 8.03. Notices........................................................13 Section 8.04. Benefit........................................................14 Section 8.05. Interpretation.................................................14 Section 8.06. Governing Law..................................................15 (iii)
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT This GUARANTEE AGREEMENT, dated as of September 10, 2002, is executed and delivered by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Guarantor"), to Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association duly organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (the "Guarantee Trustee"), for the benefit of the Holders (as defined herein) from time to time of the Preferred Trust Securities (as defined herein) of PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Issuer"). WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Trust Agreement (the "Declaration"), dated as of September 10, 2002, among the trustees of the Issuer named therein, the Guarantor, as depositor, and the Holders from time to time of undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer, the Issuer will issue $460,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 6.25% Preferred Trust Securities (liquidation amount of $50 per preferred trust security) (the "Preferred Trust Securities") representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer and having the terms set forth in the Declaration; WHEREAS, the Preferred Trust Securities will be issued by the Issuer and the proceeds thereof, together with the proceeds from the sale by the Issuer of its Common Securities (as defined herein) will be used to purchase the Senior Deferrable Notes (as defined herein) of the Guarantor which will be deposited with Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), as Property Trustee under the Declaration, as Trust Property (as defined in the Declaration); WHEREAS, as incentive for the Holders to purchase Preferred Trust Securities, the Guarantor desires irrevocably and unconditionally to agree, to the extent set forth herein, to pay to the Holders of the Preferred Trust Securities the Guarantee Payments (as defined herein) and to make certain other payments on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and WHEREAS, the Guarantor is also executing and delivering a guarantee agreement (the "Common Securities Guarantee Agreement") in substantially identical terms to this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the holders of the Common Securities, except that if an event of default (as defined in the Declaration), has occurred and is continuing, the rights of holders of the Common Securities to receive payments under the Common Securities Guarantee Agreement are subordinated to the rights of Holders to receive Guarantee Payments under this Guarantee Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase by each Holder of Preferred Trust Securities, which purchase the Guarantor hereby agrees shall benefit the Guarantor, the Guarantor executes and delivers this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Preferred Trust Securities. 1
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.01. Definitions. As used in this Guarantee Agreement, each of the terms set forth below shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meaning. Each capitalized or otherwise defined term used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Declaration as in effect on the date hereof. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Common Securities" means the securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Issuer and having the rights provided therefor in the Declaration. "Event of Default" means a default by the Guarantor on any of its payment or other obligations under this Guarantee Agreement; provided, that except with respect to a default resulting from a failure to pay any Guarantee Payment, the Guarantor shall have received notice of default and shall not have cured such default within 60 days after receipt of such notice. "Guarantee Payments" means the following payments or Distributions (as defined in the Declaration), without duplication, with respect to the Preferred Trust Securities, to the extent not paid or made by or on behalf of the Issuer: (i) any accumulated and unpaid Distributions required to be paid on the Preferred Trust Securities, to the extent the Issuer shall have funds available therefor, (ii) the redemption price, including all accumulated and unpaid Distributions to the date of redemption (the "Redemption Price") with respect to Preferred Trust Securities in respect of which the related Senior Deferrable Notes have been redeemed by the Company upon the occurrence of a Tax Event Redemption, to the extent the Issuer has funds available therefor, and (iii) upon a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up or termination of the Issuer (other than in connection with the distribution of Senior Deferrable Notes to the Holders in exchange for Preferred Trust Securities as provided in the Declaration), the lesser of (a) the aggregate of the liquidation amount and all accumulated and unpaid Distributions on the Preferred Trust Securities to the date of payment, to the extent the Issuer shall have funds available therefor, and (b) the amount of assets of the Issuer remaining legally available for distribution to Holders in liquidation of the Issuer (in either case, the "Liquidation Distribution"). If an event of default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the rights of holders of the Common Securities to receive payments under the Common Securities Guarantee Agreement are subordinated to the rights of Holders to receive Guarantee Payments. "Guarantee Trustee" means Wachovia Bank, National Association, until a Successor Guarantee Trustee (as defined below) has been appointed and has accepted such appointment pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement and thereafter means each such Successor Guarantee Trustee. 2
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Preferred Trust Security is registered in the Securities Register; provided, however, that in determining whether the holders of the requisite percentage of Preferred Trust Securities have given any request, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, "Holder" shall not include the Guarantor, the Guarantee Trustee or any Affiliate of the Guarantor or the Guarantee Trustee. "Indenture" means the Indenture dated as of November 1, 1998, between Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as trustee thereunder, as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2002, between Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Wachovia Bank, National Association. "List of Holders" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(c). "Majority in liquidation amount of the Preferred Trust Securities" means, except as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, a vote by the Holders, of more than 50% of the aggregate liquidation amount of all then outstanding Preferred Trust Securities issued by the Issuer. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Guarantor. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature. "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to the Guarantee Trustee, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, any Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer or any other officer of the Corporate Trust Department of the Guarantee Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of that officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Senior Deferrable Notes" means the series of debt securities of the Guarantor designated the o % Senior Deferrable Notes due 2007 held by the Property Trustee (as defined in the Declaration). "Successor Guarantee Trustee" means a successor Guarantee Trustee possessing the qualifications to act as Guarantee Trustee under Section 4.01. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. "Tax Event Redemption" has the same meaning as defined in the Declaration. 3
ARTICLE II TRUST INDENTURE ACT Section 2.01. Trust Indenture Act; Application. (a) This Guarantee Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Guarantee Agreement and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions. (b) If and to the extent that any provision of this Guarantee Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control. (c) List of Holders. The Guarantor shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Guarantee Trustee (i) semiannually, on or before January 15 and July 15 of each year, a list, in such form as the Guarantee Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders ("List of Holders") as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the delivery thereof, and (ii) at such other times as the Guarantee Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Guarantor of any such request, a List of Holders as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished, in each case to the extent such information is in the possession or control of the Guarantor and is not identical to a previously supplied List of Holders or has not otherwise been received by the Guarantee Trustee in its capacity as such. The Guarantee Trustee may destroy any List of Holders previously given to it on receipt of a new List of Holders. (d) The Guarantee Trustee shall comply with its obligations under Sections 311(a), Section 311(b) and Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.02. Reports by the Guarantee Trustee. Within 60 days after May 31 of each year, the Guarantee Trustee shall provide to the Holders such reports as are required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, if any, in the form and in the manner provided by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act. The Guarantee Trustee shall also comply with the requirements of Section 313(d) of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.03. Periodic Reports to Guarantee Trustee. The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Holders such documents, reports and information, if any, as required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act and the compliance certificate required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act in the form and manner and at the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act. Section 2.04. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent. The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee such evidence of compliance with such conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Guarantee Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Each Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Guarantee Agreement shall include: 4
(a) a statement that each officer signing the Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read the covenant or condition and the definition relating thereto; (b) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by each officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel and upon which the statements contained therein are based; (c) a statement that each such officer has made such examination or investigation as, in such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with. Section 2.05. Events of Default; Waiver. The Holders of a Majority in liquidation amount of the Preferred Trust Securities may, by vote, on behalf of the Holders, waive any past Event of Default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, any such Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Guarantee Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent therefrom. Section 2.06. Event of Default; Notice. (a) The Guarantee Trustee shall, within 90 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default, transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Holders, notices of all Events of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, unless such defaults have been cured before the giving of such notice, provided, that, except in the case of a default in the payment of a Guarantee Payment, the Guarantee Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the Board of Directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Guarantee Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders. (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default unless the Guarantee Trustee shall have received written notice, or a Responsible Officer charged with the administration of the Declaration shall have obtained written notice, of such Event of Default. ARTICLE III POWERS, DUTIES AND RIGHTS OF THE GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 3.01. Powers and Duties of the Guarantee Trustee. (a) This Guarantee Agreement shall be held by the Guarantee Trustee for the benefit of the Holders, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not transfer this Guarantee Agreement to any 5
Person except a Holder exercising his or her rights pursuant to Section 5.04(iv) or to a Successor Guarantee Trustee on acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment to act as Successor Guarantee Trustee. The right, title and interest of the Guarantee Trustee shall automatically vest in any Successor Guarantee Trustee upon acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment hereunder and such vesting and cessation of title shall be effective whether or not conveyancing documents have been executed and delivered pursuant to the appointment of such Successor Guarantee Trustee. (b) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Guarantee Trustee shall enforce this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders. (c) The Guarantee Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiver of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Guarantee Agreement against the Guarantee Trustee. In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (and has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 2.06), the Guarantee Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (d) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Guarantee Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, its bad faith or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred: (A) the duties and obligations of the Guarantee Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Guarantee Agreement, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Guarantee Agreement; and (B) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Guarantee Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Guarantee Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof or of the Trust Indenture Act are specifically required to be furnished to the Guarantee Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Guarantee Agreement; (ii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the Guarantee Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Guarantee Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts upon which such judgment was made; 6
(iii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a Majority in liquidation amount of the Preferred Trust Securities relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and (iv) no provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall require the Guarantee Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Guarantee Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this Guarantee Agreement or reasonable indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Section 3.02. Certain Rights of Guarantee Trustee. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 3.01: (i) The Guarantee Trustee may rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or presented by the proper party or parties. (ii) Any direction or act of the Guarantor contemplated by this Guarantee Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate unless otherwise prescribed herein. (iii) Whenever, in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established before taking, suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (unless other evidence is herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request and rely upon an Officers' Certificate which, upon receipt of such request from the Guarantee Trustee, shall be promptly delivered by the Guarantor. (iv) The Guarantee Trustee may consult with legal counsel, and the written advice or Opinion of Counsel with respect to legal matters shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion. Such legal counsel may be legal counsel to the Guarantor or any of its Affiliates and may be one of its employees. The Guarantee Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Guarantee Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction. (v) The Guarantee Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement at the request or direction of any Holder, unless such Holder shall have provided to the Guarantee Trustee such 7
reasonable indemnity as would satisfy a reasonable person in the position of the Guarantee Trustee, against the costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in complying with such request or direction. (vi) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Guarantee Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit. (vii) The Guarantee Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through its agents or attorneys, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder. (viii) Whenever in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (A) may request instructions from the Holders, (B) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such instructions are received, and (C) shall be protected in acting in accordance with such instructions. (b) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or obligation on the Guarantee Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it in any jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which the Guarantee Trustee shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable law, to perform any such act or acts or to exercise any such right, power, duty or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to the Guarantee Trustee shall be construed to be a duty to act in accordance with such power and authority. Section 3.03. Indemnity. The Guarantor agrees to indemnify the Guarantee Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Guarantee Trustee, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Guarantee Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The Guarantee Trustee will not claim or exact any lien or charge on any Guarantee Payments as a result of any amount due to it under this Guarantee Agreement. The provisions of this Section shall survive the resignation and removal of the Guarantee Trustee and the termination of this Guarantee Agreement. ARTICLE IV GUARANTEE TRUSTEE Section 4.01. Guarantee Trustee; Eligibility. (a) There shall at all times be a Guarantee Trustee which shall: 8
(i) not be an Affiliate of the Guarantor; and (ii) be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least fifty million U.S. dollars ($50,000,000), and shall be a corporation meeting the requirements of Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. (b) If at any time the Guarantee Trustee shall cease to be eligible to so act under Section 4.01(a), the Guarantee Trustee shall immediately resign in the manner and with the effect set out in Section 4.02(c). (c) If the Guarantee Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee and Guarantor shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. In determining whether the Guarantee Trustee has a "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act, the provisions contained in the proviso to Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act and the Guarantee Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 shall be deemed incorporated herein. Section 4.02. Appointment, Removal and Resignation of the Guarantee Trustee. (a) Subject to Section 4.02(b), the Guarantee Trustee may be appointed or removed without cause at any time by the Guarantor. (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be removed until new, eligible guarantee trustee has been appointed (a "Successor Guarantee Trustee") and has accepted such appointment and assumed the applicable obligations hereunder by written instrument executed by such Successor Guarantee Trustee and delivered to the Guarantor. (c) The Guarantee Trustee may resign from office (without need for prior or subsequent accounting) by an instrument in writing executed by the Guarantee Trustee and delivered to the Guarantor, which resignation shall not take effect until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such appointment by instrument in writing executed by such Successor Guarantee Trustee and delivered to the Guarantor and the resigning Guarantee Trustee. (d) If no Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and accepted appointment as provided in this Section 4.02 within 60 days after delivery to the Guarantor of an instrument of resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Guarantor, any court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a Successor Guarantee Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after prescribing such notice, if any, as it may deem proper, appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee. 9
ARTICLE V GUARANTEE Section 5.01. Guarantee. The Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to pay in full to the Holders of the outstanding Preferred Trust Securities the Guarantee Payments (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by or on behalf of the Issuer pursuant to the Declaration or by the Guarantor pursuant to the Indenture), as and when due, regardless of any defense, right of set-off or counterclaim which the Issuer may have or assert. The Guarantor's obligation to make a Guarantee Payment may be satisfied by direct payment of the required amounts by the Guarantor to the Holders or to the Guarantee Trustee for remittance to the Holders or by causing the Issuer to pay such amounts to the Holders. Section 5.02. Waiver of Notice and Demand. The Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of the Guarantee Agreement and of any liability to which it applies or may apply, presentment, demand for payment, any right to require a proceeding first against the Guarantee Trustee, the Issuer or any other Person before proceeding against the Guarantor, protest, notice of nonpayment, notice of dishonor, notice of redemption and all other notices and demands. Section 5.03. Obligations Not Affected. The obligations, covenants, agreements and duties of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall in no way be affected or impaired by reason of the happening from time to time of any of the following: (a) the release or waiver, by operation of law or otherwise, of the performance or observance by the Issuer of any express or implied agreement, covenant, term or condition relating to the Preferred Trust Securities to be performed or observed by the Issuer; (b) any failure, omission, delay or lack of diligence on the part of the Holders to enforce, assert or exercise any right, privilege, power or remedy conferred on the Holders pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Trust Securities, or any action on the part of the Issuer granting indulgence or extension of any kind; (c) the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, termination, sale of any collateral, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or readjustment of debt of, or other similar proceedings affecting, the Issuer or any of the assets of the Issuer; (d) any invalidity of, or defect or deficiency in, the Preferred Trust Securities; (e) the settlement or compromise of any obligation guaranteed hereby or hereby incurred; or (f) to the extent permitted by law, any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor, it being the intent of this Section 5.03 that the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. 10
There shall be no obligation of the Holders to give notice to, or obtain the consent of, the Guarantor with respect to the happening of any of the foregoing. Section 5.04. Rights of Holders. The Guarantor expressly acknowledges that: (i) this Guarantee Agreement will be deposited with the Guarantee Trustee to be held for the benefit of the Holders; (ii) the Guarantee Trustee has the right to enforce this Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Holders; (iii) the Holders of a Majority in liquidation amount of the Preferred Trust Securities have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Guarantee Trustee in respect of this Guarantee Agreement or exercise or direct the exercise of any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and (iv) if the Guarantee Trustee has failed to enforce this Guarantee Agreement as above provided, any Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Guarantor to enforce its rights under this Guarantee Agreement, without first instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee, the Issuer or any other Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Guarantor has failed to make a Guarantee Payment, a Holder may directly institute a proceeding against the Guarantor for enforcement of this Guarantee Agreement for such payment. The Guarantor waives any right or remedy to require that any action on this Guarantee Agreement be brought first against the Issuer or any other person or entity before proceeding directly against the Guarantor. Section 5.05. Guarantee of Payment. This Guarantee Agreement creates a guarantee of payment and not of collection. This Guarantee Agreement will not be discharged except by payment of the Guarantee Payments in full (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid by the Issuer) or upon distribution of Senior Deferrable Notes to Holders as provided in the Declaration. Section 5.06. Subrogation. The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all (if any) rights of the Holders against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the Holders by the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement and shall have the right to waive payment by the Issuer pursuant to Section 5.01; provided, however, that the Guarantor shall not (except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law) be entitled to enforce or exercise any rights which it may acquire by way of subrogation or any indemnity, reimbursement or other agreement, in all cases as a result of payment under this Guarantee Agreement, if, at the time of any such payment, any amounts are due and unpaid under this Guarantee Agreement. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence, the Guarantor agrees to hold such amount in trust for the Holders and to pay over such amount to the Holders. Section 5.07. Independent Obligations. The Guarantor acknowledges that its obligations hereunder are independent of the obligations of the Issuer with respect to the Preferred Trust Securities and that the Guarantor shall be liable as principal and as debtor hereunder to make Guarantee Payments pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement notwithstanding the occurrence of any event referred to in subsections (a) through (g), inclusive, of Section 5.03 hereof. 11
ARTICLE VI COVENANTS Section 6.01. Ranking. This Guarantee Agreement will constitute a senior unsecured obligation of the Guarantor and will rank (i) pari passu with the senior unsecured liabilities of the Guarantor and with any unsecured senior guarantee now or hereafter entered into by the Guarantor relating to the Guarantor's unsecured senior liabilities, except those made subordinate by their terms, and (ii) senior to the Guarantor's equity. Section 6.02. Limitation of Transactions. So long as any Preferred Trust Securities remain outstanding, if (i) there shall have occurred an Event of Default, (ii) there shall have occurred an event of default under the Indenture or (iii) the Guarantor has exercised its option to defer interest payments on the Senior Deferrable Notes by extending the interest payment period as provided therein, and such period or extension thereof shall be continuing, then (a) the Guarantor shall not declare or pay any dividend on, make any distribution or other payment with respect to, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make any liquidation payment with respect to any of its capital stock (other than (1) purchases or other acquisitions of shares of the Guarantor's capital stock in connection with the satisfaction by the Guarantor of its obligations under any employee or director compensation or benefit plans, under the Guarantor's direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan, or pursuant to any contract or security outstanding on the first day of any such event requiring the Guarantor to purchase its capital stock, (2) as a result of a reclassification of the Guarantor's capital stock or as a result of an exchange or conversion of one class or series of the Guarantor's capital stock for another class or series of the Guarantor's capital stock, (3) redemptions or repurchases of any rights pursuant to a rights agreement, or (4) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of the Guarantor's capital stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the security being converted or exchanged), (b) the Guarantor shall not make any distribution on any security of a grantor trust which ranks pari passu with the Preferred Trust Securities or pay interest on its senior debt with similar deferral provisions to the Senior Deferrable Notes, (c) the Guarantor shall not make any payment of principal, interest or premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities issued by the Guarantor that rank subordinate in right of payment to the Senior Deferrable Notes and (d) the Guarantor shall not make any guarantee payments with respect to the foregoing or with respect to any guarantee by the Guarantor of the debt of any subsidiary of the Guarantor if such guarantee ranks subordinate in right of payment to the Senior Deferrable Notes (other than pursuant to this Guarantee Agreement or the Common Securities Guarantee Agreement). In addition, so long as any Preferred Trust Securities remain outstanding, the Guarantor (i) will remain the sole direct or indirect owner of all the outstanding Common Securities; provided that any permitted successor of the Guarantor under the Indenture may succeed to the Guarantor's ownership of the Common Securities, (ii) will permit the Common Securities to be transferred only as permitted by the Declaration, and (iii) will use its best efforts to cause the Issuer to continue to be treated as a grantor trust for United States federal income tax purposes, except in connection with a distribution of the Senior Deferrable Notes, the redemption of all of the Trust Securities or mergers, consolidations or amalgamations, each as provided in the Declaration, in which case the Issuer would be dissolved. 12
ARTICLE VII TERMINATION Section 7.01. Termination. This Guarantee Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect upon (i) full payment by the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, of the Redemption Price for all Preferred Trust Securities, (ii) the distribution of the Senior Deferrable Notes to the Holders in accordance with Article VIII of the Declaration upon the dissolution of the Issuer or (iii) full payment by the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, of the amounts payable in accordance with the Declaration upon the dissolution of the Issuer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Guarantee Agreement will continue to be effective or will be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any Holder must restore payment of any sums paid with respect to Preferred Trust Securities or this Guarantee Agreement. ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS Section 8.01. Successors and Assigns. All guarantees and agreements contained in this Guarantee Agreement shall bind the successors, assigns, receivers, trustees and representatives of the Guarantor and shall inure to the benefit of the Holders of the Preferred Trust Securities then outstanding. The Guarantor may not consolidate with or merge with or into, or sell, convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety (either in one transaction or a series of transactions) to, any Person unless permitted under Article Eight of the Indenture. In connection with a consolidation, merger or sale involving the Guarantor that is permitted under Article Eight of the Indenture the Person formed by or surviving such consolidation or merger or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease shall have been made, if other than the Guarantor, shall expressly assume all of the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder and under the Declaration. Section 8.02. Amendments. Except with respect to any changes which do not adversely affect the rights of the Holders in any material respect (in which case no consent of the Holders will be required), this Guarantee Agreement may only be amended with the prior approval of the Holders of a Majority in liquidation amount of the Preferred Trust Securities (excluding any Preferred Trust Securities held by the Guarantor or an affiliate thereof). The provisions of Article VI of the Declaration concerning meetings of the Holders shall apply to the giving of such approval. Section 8.03. Notices. Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and delivered, telecopied or mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, as follows: (a) if given to the Guarantor, to the address set forth below or such other address as the Guarantor may give notice of to the Holders: Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated 80 Park Plaza 13
P.O. Box 570 Newark, NJ 07101 Facsimile No: 973-242-1651 Attention: Treasurer (b) if given to the Issuer, in care of the Guarantee Trustee, at the Issuer's (and the Guarantee Trustee's) address set forth below or such other address as the Guarantee Trustee on behalf of the Issuer may give notice to the Holders: PSEG Funding Trust I 80 Park Plaza Newark, NJ 07101 Facsimile No: 973-242-1651 Attention: Treasurer with a copy to: Wachovia Bank, National Association 21 South Street Morristown, NJ 07960 Facsimile No: 973-682-4531 Attention: Corporate Trust Department (c) if given to any Holder, at the address set forth in the Securities Register. All notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given when received in person, telecopied with receipt confirmed, or mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid except that if a notice or other document is refused delivery or cannot be delivered because of a changed address of which no notice was given, such notice or other document shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date of such refusal or inability to deliver. Section 8.04. Benefit. This Guarantee Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Holders and is not separately transferable from the Preferred Trust Securities. Section 8.05. Interpretation. In this Guarantee Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires: (a) all references to "the Guarantee Agreement" or "this Guarantee Agreement" are to this Guarantee Agreement as modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; (b) all references in this Guarantee Agreement to Articles and Sections are to Articles and Sections of this Guarantee Agreement unless otherwise specified; (c) a term defined in the Trust Indenture Act has the same meaning when used in this Guarantee Agreement unless otherwise defined in this Guarantee Agreement or unless the context otherwise requires; 14
(d) a reference to the singular includes the plural and vice versa; and (e) the masculine, feminine or neuter genders used herein shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter genders. Section 8.06. Governing Law. THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 15
THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT is executed as of the day and year first above written. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, as Guarantor By: ------------------------------------------ Name: Title: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Guarantee Trustee By: ------------------------------------------ Name: Title: 16

EXHIBIT 4.6 ================================================================================ PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Purchase Contract Agent PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT Dated as of September 10, 2002 ================================================================================
Table of Contents Page ---- ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION SECTION 1.01 Definitions.....................................................1 SECTION 1.02 Compliance Certificates and Opinions...........................12 SECTION 1.03 Form of Documents Delivered to Purchase Contract Agent.........12 SECTION 1.04 Acts of Holders; Record Dates..................................13 SECTION 1.05 Notices........................................................14 SECTION 1.06 Notice to Holders; Waiver......................................15 SECTION 1.07 Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.......................16 SECTION 1.08 Successors and Assigns.........................................16 SECTION 1.09 Separability Clause............................................16 SECTION 1.10 Benefits of Agreement..........................................16 SECTION 1.11 Governing Law..................................................16 SECTION 1.12 Legal Holidays.................................................17 SECTION 1.13 Counterparts...................................................17 SECTION 1.14 Inspection of Agreement........................................17 SECTION 1.15 Appointment of Financial Institution as Agent for the Company..............................................17 ARTICLE 2 CERTIFICATE FORMS SECTION 2.01 Forms of Certificates Generally................................17 SECTION 2.02 Form of Purchase Contract Agent's Certificate of Authentication............................................19 ARTICLE 3 THE SECURITIES SECTION 3.01 Amount; Form and Denominations.................................19 SECTION 3.02 Rights and Obligations Evidenced by the Certificates...........19 SECTION 3.03 Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.................20 SECTION 3.04 Temporary Certificates.........................................20 SECTION 3.05 Registration; Registration of Transfer and Exchange............21 SECTION 3.06 Book-Entry Interests...........................................22 SECTION 3.07 Notices to Holders.............................................23 SECTION 3.08 Appointment of Successor Depositary............................23 SECTION 3.09 Definitive Certificates........................................23 SECTION 3.10 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Certificates.............24 SECTION 3.11 Persons Deemed Owners..........................................25 i
SECTION 3.12 Cancellation...................................................25 SECTION 3.13 Creation of Treasury Units by Substitution of Treasury Securities.......................................26 SECTION 3.14 Reestablishment of Corporate Units.............................28 SECTION 3.15 Transfer of Collateral upon Occurrence of Termination Event....29 SECTION 3.16 No Consent to Assumption.......................................30 ARTICLE 4 The Preferred Securities, Notes and Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio SECTION 4.01 Distribution or Interest Payments; Rights to Distribution or Interest Payments Preserved..................30 SECTION 4.02 Notice and Voting..............................................31 SECTION 4.03 Distribution of Notes; Tax Event Redemption....................32 ARTICLE 5 The Purchase Contracts SECTION 5.01 Purchase of Shares of Common Stock.............................33 SECTION 5.02 Initial and Secondary Remarketing; Payment of Purchase Price...36 SECTION 5.03 Issuance of Shares of Common Stock.............................43 SECTION 5.04 Adjustment of Settlement Rate..................................44 SECTION 5.05 Notice of Adjustments and Certain Other Events.................52 SECTION 5.06 Termination Event; Notice......................................52 SECTION 5.07 Early Settlement...............................................53 SECTION 5.08 Intentionally Omitted..........................................55 SECTION 5.09 No Fractional Shares...........................................55 SECTION 5.10 Charges and Taxes..............................................55 SECTION 5.11 Purchase Contract Payments.....................................56 SECTION 5.12 Deferral of Purchase Contract Payments.........................57 ARTICLE 6 Remedies SECTION 6.01 Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Purchase Contract Payments and to Purchase Shares of Common Stock.....58 SECTION 6.02 Restoration of Rights and Remedies.............................59 SECTION 6.03 Rights and Remedies Cumulative.................................59 SECTION 6.04 Delay or Omission Not Waiver...................................59 SECTION 6.05 Undertaking for Costs..........................................59 SECTION 6.06 Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws...............................60 ii
ARTICLE 7 The Purchase Contract Agent SECTION 7.01 Certain Duties and Responsibilities............................60 SECTION 7.02 Notice of Default..............................................61 SECTION 7.03 Certain Rights of Purchase Contract Agent......................61 SECTION 7.04 Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.........63 SECTION 7.05 May Hold Securities............................................63 SECTION 7.06 Money Held in Custody..........................................63 SECTION 7.07 Compensation and Reimbursement.................................63 SECTION 7.08 Corporate Purchase Contract Agent Required; Eligibility........64 SECTION 7.09 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor..............64 SECTION 7.10 Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.........................65 SECTION 7.11 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business....66 SECTION 7.12 Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.........66 SECTION 7.13 No Obligations of Purchase Contract Agent......................67 SECTION 7.14 Tax Compliance.................................................67 ARTICLE 8 Supplemental Agreements SECTION 8.01 Supplemental Agreements Without Consent of Holders.............68 SECTION 8.02 Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Holders................68 SECTION 8.03 Execution of Supplemental Agreements...........................69 SECTION 8.04 Effect of Supplemental Agreements..............................70 SECTION 8.05 Reference to Supplemental Agreements...........................70 ARTICLE 9 Consolidation, Merger, Conveyance, Transfer or Lease SECTION 9.01 Covenant Not to Consolidate, Merge, Convey, Transfer or Lease Property Except under Certain Conditions............70 SECTION 9.02 Rights and Duties of Successor Corporation.....................71 SECTION 9.03 Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel Given to Purchase Contract Agent...................................71 ARTICLE 10 Covenants SECTION 10.01 Performance under Purchase Contracts...........................71 SECTION 10.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency................................72 SECTION 10.03 Company to Reserve Common Stock................................72 iii
SECTION 10.04 Covenants as to Common Stock...................................72 SECTION 10.05 Statements of Officers of the Company as to Default............72 SECTION 10.06 ERISA..........................................................73 SECTION 10.07 Tax Treatment..................................................73 iv
PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT, dated as of September 10, 2002, between PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), and Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, acting as purchase contract agent for the Holders of Securities (as defined herein) from time to time (the "Purchase Contract Agent"). RECITALS The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Certificates evidencing the Securities. All things necessary to make the Purchase Contracts, when the Certificates are executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Purchase Contract Agent, as provided in this Agreement, the valid obligations of the Company, and to constitute these presents a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done. For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed as follows: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION SECTION 1.01. Definitions. For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular, and nouns and pronouns of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter genders; (b) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States; (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, Exhibit or other subdivision; (d) the following terms have the meanings given to them in the Declaration (as defined below): (i) Applicable Ownership Interest; (ii) Applicable Principal Amount; (iii) Guarantee; (iv) Liquidation Distribution; (v) Redemption Amount; (vi) Reset Rate; (vii) Tax Event Redemption; (viii) Tax Event Redemption Date; (ix) Treasury Portfolio; and (x) Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price; and
(e) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.01(e): "Act" has the meaning, with respect to any Holder, set forth in Section 1.04. "Adjusted Exchange Property" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(1). "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agreement" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more agreements supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof. "Applicable Exchange Property Market Value" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(1). "Applicable Market Value" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "Applicants" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.12(b). "Bankruptcy Code" means title 11 of the United States Code, or any other law of the United States that from time to time provides a uniform system of bankruptcy laws. "Base Exchange Property" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(1). "Beneficial Owner" means, with respect to a Book-Entry Interest, a Person who is the beneficial owner of such Book-Entry Interest as reflected on the books of the Depositary or on the books of a Person maintaining an account with such Depositary (directly as a Depositary Participant or as an indirect participant, in each case in accordance with the rules of such Depositary). "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Company or a duly authorized committee of that board. "Board Resolution" means one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof, a copy of which has been certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors or committee thereof and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent. 2
"Book-Entry Interest" means a beneficial interest in a Global Certificate, registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof, ownership and transfers of which shall be maintained and made through book entries by such Depositary as described in Section 3.06. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday, or any other day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are permitted or required by any applicable law to close or a day on which the Indenture Trustee or the Property Trustee is closed for business; provided that for purposes of the second paragraph of Section 1.12 only, the term "Business Day" shall also be deemed to exclude any day on which trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is closed or suspended. "Cash Merger" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(2). "Cash Settlement" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(i). "Certificate" means a Corporate Units Certificate or a Treasury Units Certificate. "Clearing Agency" means an organization registered as a "clearing agency" pursuant to Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is acting as a depositary for the Securities and in whose name, or in the name of a nominee of that organization, shall be registered a Global Certificate and which shall undertake to effect book-entry transfers and pledges of the Securities. "Closing Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "Collateral" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(f) of the Pledge Agreement. "Collateral Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(f) of the Pledge Agreement. "Collateral Agent" means The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Collateral Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Collateral Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Collateral Agent thereunder. "Collateral Substitution" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.13. "Common Stock" means the common stock, without par value, of the Company. "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Agreement, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor. "Constituent Person" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b). 3
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal corporate trust office of the Purchase Contract Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 21 South Street, Morristown, New Jersey 07960, Attention: Corporate Trust Office. "Corporate Unit" means the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Corporate Units Certificate in respect of a Preferred Security, a Note or an appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, subject in each case to the Pledge thereof, and the related Purchase Contract. "Corporate Units Certificate" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Corporate Units specified on such certificate. "Current Market Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(8). "Custodial Agent" means The Bank of New York, as Custodial Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Custodial Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Custodial Agent" shall mean such successor. "Declaration" means the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of PSEG Funding Trust I, dated as of September 10, 2002, among the Company as sponsor, the trustees named therein and the holders from time to time of individual beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. "Depositary" means a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for the Securities as contemplated by Sections 3.06, 3.07, 3.08 and 3.09. "Depositary Participant" means a broker, dealer, bank, other financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time the Depositary effects book entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the Depositary. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company. "Early Settlement" means the early settlement of a Purchase Contract pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(2) or Section 5.07(a). "Early Settlement Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(a). "Early Settlement Date" means the date on which an Early Settlement occurs. "Early Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(c). "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 4
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. "Expiration Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.04(e). "Expiration Time" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(6). "Failed Initial Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a). "Failed Secondary Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(c). "Global Certificate" means a Certificate that evidences all or part of the Securities and is registered in the name of a Clearing Agency or a nominee thereof. "Holder" means, with respect to a Security, the Person in whose name the Security evidenced by a Certificate is registered in the Security Register; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite number of Securities have voted on any matter, then for the purpose of such determination only (and not for any other purpose hereunder), if the Security remains in the form of one or more Global Certificates and if the Depositary which is the registered holder of such Global Certificate has sent an omnibus proxy assigning voting rights to the Depositary Participants to whose accounts the Securities are credited on the record date, the term "Holder" shall mean such Depositary Participant acting at the direction of the Beneficial Owners. "Indenture" means the Indenture (including any provisions of the TIA that are deemed incorporated therein), dated as of November 1, 1998, between the Company and the Indenture Trustee, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of September 10, 2002, pursuant to which the Notes will be issued . "Indenture Trustee" means Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as trustee under the Indenture, or any successor thereto. "Initial Remarketing" means the remarketing of the Preferred Securities or Notes on the Initial Remarketing Date. "Initial Remarketing Date" means the third Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date. "Initial Reset Date" means any Business Day selected by the Company in its sole discretion during the period commencing May 16, 2005 through August 16, 2005 upon not less than eight (8) Business Days prior written notice to the Remarketing Agent; provided that, in the event that the Company does not select an Initial Reset Date, the Initial Reset Date shall be August 16, 2005. 5
"Issuer Order" or "Issuer Request" means a written order or request signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President, any of its Vice Presidents, its Treasurer, any of its Assistant Treasurers, its Controller, or any of its assistant Controllers, its Secretary, or any of its Assistant Secretaries, and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent. "non-electing share" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b). "Notes" means the series of Senior Deferrable Notes due 2007 issued by the Company under the Indenture and held by the Property Trustee. "NYSE" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice Presidents, the Treasurer, or any Assistant Treasurers of the Company, and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent. Any Officer's Certificate delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Agreement shall include: (i) a statement that each officer signing the Officer's Certificate has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating thereto; (ii) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or investigation undertaken by each officer in rendering the Officer's Certificate; (iii) a statement that, in the opinion of each such officer, each such officer has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (iv) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such officer, such condition or covenant has been complied with. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel to the Company (and who may be an employee of the Company), and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Purchase Contract Agent. An opinion of counsel may rely on certificates as to matters of fact. "Outstanding Securities" means, with respect to any Security and as of the date of determination, all Securities evidenced by Certificates theretofore authenticated, executed and delivered under this Agreement, except: (i) If a Termination Event has occurred, (i) Treasury Units and (ii) Corporate Units for which the underlying Preferred Securities or Notes have been theretofore deposited with the Purchase Contract Agent in trust for the Holders of such Corporate Units; 6
(ii) Securities evidenced by Certificates theretofore cancelled by the Purchase Contract Agent or delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent for cancellation or deemed cancelled pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; and (iii) Securities evidenced by Certificates in exchange for or in lieu of which other Certificates have been authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holder and delivered pursuant to this Agreement, other than any such Certificate in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Purchase Contract Agent proof satisfactory to it that such Certificate is held by a protected purchaser in whose hands the Securities evidenced by such Certificate are valid obligations of the Company; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite number of the Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding Securities, except that, in determining whether the Purchase Contract Agent shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities that a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding Securities if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Purchase Contract Agent the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. "Payment Date" means, subject to Section 4.01, each February 16, May 16, August 16 and November 16, commencing November 16, 2002; provided that, in the event that the Initial Reset Date is not otherwise a Payment Date, the Initial Reset Date shall be a Payment Date in respect of the distribution or interest payment payable on such date on the Preferred Securities or Notes then comprising components of Corporate Units. "Permitted Investments" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(f) of the Pledge Agreement. "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature. "Plan" means an employee benefit plan that is subject to ERISA, a plan or individual retirement account that is subject to Section 4975 of the Code or any entity whose assets are considered assets of any such plan. "Pledge" means the pledge under the Pledge Agreement of the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, in each case constituting a part of the Securities. 7
"Pledge Agreement" means the Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, among the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent, on its own behalf and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders from time to time of the Securities. "Pledged Notes" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(f) of the Pledge Agreement. "Pledged Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(f) of the Pledge Agreement. "Predecessor Certificate" means a Predecessor Corporate Units Certificate or a Predecessor Treasury Units Certificate. "Predecessor Corporate Units Certificate" of any particular Corporate Units Certificate means every previous Corporate Units Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Corporate Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Corporate Units Certificate authenticated and delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Corporate Units Certificate shall be deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Corporate Units Certificate. "Predecessor Treasury Units Certificate" of any particular Treasury Units Certificate means every previous Treasury Units Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Treasury Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Treasury Units Certificate authenticated and delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Treasury Units Certificate shall be deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Treasury Units Certificate. "Preferred Securities" means the Preferred Securities of the Trust, each having a liquidation amount of $50, representing preferred undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. "Proceeds" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(f) of the Pledge Agreement. "Property Trustee" means Wachovia Bank, National Association, as initial property trustee under the Declaration, or any successors thereto that is a financial institution unaffiliated with the Company. "Prospectus" means the prospectus relating to the delivery of shares of Common Stock in connection with an Early Settlement, in the form in which first filed, or transmitted for filing, with the Commission after the effective date of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, including the documents incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such Prospectus. 8
"Purchase Contract" means, with respect to any Security, the contract forming a part of such Security and obligating the Company to (i) sell, and the Holder of such Security to purchase, shares of Common Stock and (ii) pay the Holder thereof Purchase Contract Payments, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article Five hereof. "Purchase Contract Agent" means the Person named as the "Purchase Contract Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Purchase Contract Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Purchase Contract Agent" shall mean such Person. "Purchase Contract Payments" means the payments payable by the Company on the Payment Dates in respect of each Purchase Contract, at a rate per year of 4.00% of the Stated Amount per Purchase Contract. "Purchase Contract Settlement Date" means November 16, 2005. "Purchase Contract Settlement Fund" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.03. "Purchase Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "Purchased Shares" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(6). "Record Date" for any distribution and Purchase Contract Payment payable on any Payment Date means, as to any Global Certificate, the Business Day next preceding such Payment Date, and as to any other Certificate, the date selected by the Company, which shall be more than one Business Day but less than sixty Business Days prior to such Payment Date. "Reference Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "Registration Statement" means a registration statement under the Securities Act prepared by the Company covering, inter alia, the delivery by the Company of the shares of Common Stock in connection with an Early Settlement, including all exhibits thereto and the documents incorporated by reference in the prospectus contained in such registration statement, and any post-effective amendments thereto. "Remarketing" means the remarketing of the Preferred Securities or Notes by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement. "Remarketing Agent" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a). "Remarketing Agreement" means the Remarketing Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, between the Company and the Remarketing Agent. "Remarketing Fee" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a). "Reorganization Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b). 9
"Remarketing Per Preferred Security or Note Price" means the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price divided by the number of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, held as components of Corporate Units and remarketed in the Initial Remarketing. "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to the Purchase Contract Agent, any officer of the Purchase Contract Agent assigned by the Purchase Contract Agent to administer this Agreement. "Secondary Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(c). "Secondary Remarketing Date" means the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. "Securities Intermediary" means The Bank of New York, as Securities Intermediary under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Securities Intermediary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Securities Intermediary" shall mean such successor. "Security" means a Corporate Unit or a Treasury Unit, as the case may be. "Security Register" and "Securities Registrar" have the respective meanings set forth in Section 3.05. "Senior Indebtedness" means all indebtedness of the Company outstanding at any time except for such Indebtedness as to which, by its terms, is subordinated to or ranks equally with the payment of the Purchase Contract Payments on the Outstanding Securities or any other indebtedness ranking pari passu with the payment of the Purchase Contract Payments on the Outstanding Securities. "Separate Preferred Securities or Notes" means Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, that are no longer a component of Corporate Units. "Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price" means the amount in cash equal to the product of the Remarketing Per Preferred Security or Note Price multiplied by the number of Separate Preferred Securities or Notes remarketed in the Initial Remarketing. "Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "Stated Amount" means $50. "Successful Initial Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a). "Successful Secondary Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(c). 10
"Termination Date" means the date, if any, on which a Termination Event occurs. "Termination Event" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (iv) at any time on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a judgment, decree or court order shall have been entered granting relief under the Bankruptcy Code, adjudicating the Company to be insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization or liquidation of the Company or any other similar applicable Federal or State law, and, unless such judgment, decree or order shall have been entered within 60 days prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, such decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; (v) a judgment, decree or court order for the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company or of its property, or for the termination or liquidation of its affairs, shall have been entered, and, unless such judgment, decree or order shall have been entered within 60 days prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, such judgment, decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or (vi) at any time on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Company shall file a petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code, or shall consent to the filing of a bankruptcy proceeding against it, or shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or liquidation under the Bankruptcy Code or any other similar applicable Federal or State law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition, or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of it or of its property, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due. "Threshold Appreciation Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time, or any successor legislation. "Trading Day" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01. "Treasury Securities" means zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities (CUSIP No. 912820FX0 or 912820BQ9) with a principal amount at maturity equal to $1,000 and maturing on November 15, 2005, the Business Day preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. "Treasury Units" means, following the substitution of Treasury Securities for Preferred Securities or Notes as collateral to secure a Holder's obligations under the Purchase Contract, the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Treasury Units Certificate in respect of such Treasury Securities, subject to the Pledge thereof, and the related Purchase Contract. "Treasury Units Certificate" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Treasury Units specified on such certificate. 11
"Trust" means PSEG Funding Trust I, a statutory trust formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any successor thereto by merger or consolidation. "Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of September 5, 2002, between the Company, the Trust and the Underwriters identified in Schedule A thereto. "Vice President" means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president." SECTION 1.02 Compliance Certificates and Opinions. Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement, upon any application or request by the Company to the Purchase Contract Agent to take any action in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, the Company shall furnish to the Purchase Contract Agent an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Agreement relating to the proposed action have been complied with and, if requested by the Purchase Contract Agent, an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Agreement relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished. Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Agreement shall include: (i) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto; (ii) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (iii) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such individual to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (iv) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with. SECTION 1.03 Form of Documents Delivered to Purchase Contract Agent. In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give 12
an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents. Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous. Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Agreement, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument. SECTION 1.04 Acts of Holders; Record Dates. (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Agreement to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Agreement and (subject to Section 7.01) conclusive in favor of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any manner which the Purchase Contract Agent deems sufficient. (c) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register. (d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Certificate evidencing such Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Purchase Contract Agent or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Certificate. (e) The Company may set any date as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Agreement to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of the Outstanding Corporate Units and the Outstanding 13
Treasury Units, as the case may be, on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action with respect to the Corporate Units or the Treasury Units, as the case may be, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken prior to or on the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite number of Outstanding Securities on such record date. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and be of no effect), and nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite number of Outstanding Securities on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Purchase Contract Agent in writing and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 1.06. With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the Company may designate any date as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; provided that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the Purchase Contract Agent in writing, and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 1.06, prior to or on the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the Company shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date. SECTION 1.05 Notices. Any notice or communication is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier (with receipt confirmed) or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address; provided that notice shall be deemed given to the Purchase Contract Agent only upon receipt thereof: If to the Purchase Contract Agent: Wachovia Bank, National Association 21 South Street, 3rd Floor Morristown, New Jersey 07960 Telecopier No.: 973-682-4531 Attention: Corporate Trust Bond Administration If to the Company: Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated 14
80 Park Plaza P.O. Box 1171 Newark, New Jersey 07101 Telecopier No.: 973-596-6309 Attention: Treasurer with a copy to: Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated 80 Park Plaza P.O. Box 1171 Newark, New Jersey 07101 Telecopier No.: 973-642-5033 Attention: Associate General Counsel If to the Collateral Agent: The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street New York, New York 10285 Telecopier No.: 212-815-7760 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration If to the Property Trustee: Wachovia Bank, National Association 21 South Street, 3rd Floor Morristown, New Jersey 07960 Telecopier No.: 973-682-4531 Attention: Corporate Trust Bond Administration If to the Indenture Trustee: Wachovia Bank, National Association 21 South Street, 3rd Floor Morristown, New Jersey 07960 Telecopier No.: 973-682-4531 Attention: Corporate Trust Bond Administration SECTION 1.06 Notice to Holders; Waiver. Where this Agreement provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at its address as it appears in 15
the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Agreement provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Purchase Contract Agent, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Purchase Contract Agent shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. SECTION 1.07 Effect of Headings and Table of Contents. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. SECTION 1.08 Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements in this Agreement by the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. SECTION 1.09 Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Agreement or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. SECTION 1.10 Benefits of Agreement. Nothing contained in this Agreement or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and, to the extent provided hereby, the Holders, any benefits or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement. The Holders from time to time shall be beneficiaries of this Agreement and shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Securities evidenced by their Certificates by their acceptance of delivery of such Certificates. SECTION 1.11 Governing Law. This Agreement and the Securities shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. 16
SECTION 1.12 Legal Holidays. In any case where any Payment Date shall not be a Business Day (notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Securities), Purchase Contract Payments or other distributions shall not be paid on such date, but Purchase Contract Payments or such other distributions shall be paid on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Payment Date, provided that no interest shall accrue or be payable by the Company or to any Holder for the period from and after any such Payment Date, except that, if such next succeeding Business Day falls the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Payment Date. In any case where any Purchase Contract Settlement Date or Early Settlement Date shall not be a Business Day (notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Securities) Purchase Contracts shall not be performed and Early Settlement shall not be effected on such date, but Purchase Contracts shall be performed or Early Settlement effected, as applicable, on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if performed on such Purchase Contract Settlement Date or Early Settlement Date, as applicable. SECTION 1.13 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts by the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. SECTION 1.14 Inspection of Agreement. A copy of this Agreement shall be available at all reasonable times during normal business hours at the Corporate Trust Office for inspection by any Holder or Beneficial Owner. SECTION 1.15 Appointment of Financial Institution as Agent for the Company. The Company may appoint a financial institution (which may be the Collateral Agent) to act as its agent in performing its obligations and in accepting and enforcing performance of the obligations of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders, under this Agreement and the Purchase Contracts, by giving notice of such appointment in the manner provided in Section 1.05 hereof. Any such appointment shall not relieve the Company in any way from its obligations hereunder. ARTICLE 2 CERTIFICATE FORMS SECTION 2.01 Forms of Certificates Generally. The Certificates (including the form of Purchase Contract forming part of each Security evidenced thereby) shall be in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto (in the case of 17
Certificates evidencing Corporate Units) or Exhibit B hereto (in the case of Certificates evidencing Treasury Units), with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Securities are listed or any depositary therefor, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the Certificates. The definitive Certificates shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers of the Company executing the Securities evidenced by such Certificates, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, as evidenced by their execution thereof. Every Global Certificate authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REQUESTED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN." 18
SECTION 2.02 Form of Purchase Contract Agent's Certificate of Authentication. The form of the Purchase Contract Agent's certificate of authentication of the Securities shall be in substantially the form set forth on the form of the applicable Certificates. ARTICLE 3 THE SECURITIES SECTION 3.01 Amount; Form and Denominations. The aggregate number of Securities evidenced by Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder is limited to 9,200,000, except for Certificates authenticated, executed and delivered upon registration of transfer of, in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Certificates pursuant to Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.10, 3.13, 3.14, 5.07 or 8.05. The Certificates shall be issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Corporate Unit or Treasury Unit and any integral multiple thereof. SECTION 3.02 Rights and Obligations Evidenced by the Certificates. Each Corporate Units Certificate shall evidence the number of Corporate Units specified therein, with each such Corporate Unit representing (1) the ownership by the Holder thereof of a beneficial interest in a Preferred Security, a Note or the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, subject to the Pledge of such Preferred Security, such Note or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (2) the rights and obligations of the Holder thereof and the Company under one Purchase Contract. The Purchase Contract Agent, as attorney-in-fact for, and on behalf of, the Holder of each Corporate Unit shall pledge, pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Preferred Security, the Note or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, forming a part of such Corporate Unit, to the Collateral Agent and grant to the Collateral Agent a security interest in the right, title and interest of such Holder in such Preferred Security, such Note or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligation of the Holder under each Purchase Contract to purchase shares of Common Stock. Upon the formation of a Treasury Unit pursuant to Section 3.13, each Treasury Units Certificate shall evidence the number of Treasury Units specified therein, with each such Treasury Unit representing (1) the ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/20 undivided beneficial interest in a Treasury Security with a principal amount equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such Treasury Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (2) the rights and obligations of the Holder thereof and the Company under one Purchase Contract. Prior to the purchase of shares of Common Stock under each Purchase Contract, such Purchase Contracts shall not entitle the Holder of a Security to any of the rights of a holder of 19
shares of Common Stock, including, without limitation, the right to vote or receive any dividends or other payments or to consent or to receive notice as a shareholder in respect of the meetings of shareholders or for the election of directors of the Company or for any other matter, or any other rights whatsoever as a shareholder of the Company. SECTION 3.03 Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating. Subject to the provisions of Sections 3.13 and 3.14 hereof, upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement, and at any time and from time to time thereafter, the Company may deliver Certificates executed by the Company to the Purchase Contract Agent for authentication, execution on behalf of the Holders and delivery, together with its Issuer Order for authentication of such Certificates, and the Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with such Issuer Order shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holders and deliver such Certificates. The Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or one of its Vice Presidents. The signature of any of these officers on the Certificates may be manual or facsimile. Certificates bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Certificates or did not hold such offices at the date of such Certificates. No Purchase Contract evidenced by a Certificate shall be valid until such Certificate has been executed on behalf of the Holder by the manual signature of an authorized signatory of the Purchase Contract Agent, as such Holder's attorney-in-fact. Such signature by an authorized signatory of the Purchase Contract Agent shall be conclusive evidence that the Holder of such Certificate has entered into the Purchase Contracts evidenced by such Certificate. Each Certificate shall be dated the date of its authentication. No Certificate shall be entitled to any benefit under this Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Certificate a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by an authorized signatory of the Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Certificate shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Certificate has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. SECTION 3.04 Temporary Certificates. Pending the preparation of definitive Certificates, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holders, and deliver, in lieu of such definitive Certificates, temporary Certificates which are in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A or Exhibit B hereto, as the case may be, with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved thereon as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, are 20
listed, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the Certificates. If temporary Certificates are issued, the Company will cause definitive Certificates to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Certificates, the temporary Certificates shall be exchangeable for definitive Certificates upon surrender of the temporary Certificates at the Corporate Trust Office, at the expense of the Company and without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Certificates, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, one or more definitive Certificates of like tenor and denominations and evidencing a like number of Securities as the temporary Certificate or Certificates so surrendered. Until so exchanged, the temporary Certificates shall in all respects evidence the same benefits and the same obligations with respect to the Securities evidenced thereby as definitive Certificates. SECTION 3.05 Registration; Registration of Transfer and Exchange. The Purchase Contract Agent shall keep at the Corporate Trust Office a register (the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Purchase Contract Agent shall provide for the registration of Certificates and of transfers of Certificates (the Purchase Contract Agent, in such capacity, the "Security Registrar"). The Security Registrar shall record separately the registration and transfer of the Certificates evidencing Corporate Units and Treasury Units. Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Certificate at the Corporate Trust Office, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the designated transferee or transferees, and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Certificates of any authorized denominations, like tenor, and evidencing a like number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be. At the option of the Holder, Certificates may be exchanged for other Certificates, of any authorized denominations and evidencing a like number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, upon surrender of the Certificates to be exchanged at the Corporate Trust Office. Whenever any Certificates are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver the Certificates which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. All Certificates issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of a Certificate shall evidence the ownership of the same number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, and be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same obligations, under this Agreement as the Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, evidenced by the Certificate surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. 21
Every Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall (if so required by the Purchase Contract Agent) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent duly executed, by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of a Certificate, but the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent may require payment from the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Certificates, other than any exchanges pursuant to Sections 3.06 and 8.05 not involving any transfer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder and deliver any Certificate in exchange for any other Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange on or after the Business Day immediately preceding the earliest of any Early Settlement Date for such Certificate, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent shall: (i) if the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or an Early Settlement Date with respect to such other Certificate has occurred, deliver the shares of Common Stock issuable in respect of the Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Securities evidenced by such other Certificate; or (ii) if a Cash Settlement or an Early Settlement Date with respect to such other Certificate shall have occurred, or if a Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, transfer the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the Treasury Securities, or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, evidenced thereby, in each case subject to the applicable conditions and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3.15 and Article Five hereof. SECTION 3.06 Book-Entry Interests. The Certificates, on original issuance, will be issued in the form of one or more fully registered Global Certificates, to be delivered to the Depositary or its custodian by, or on behalf of, the Company. The Company hereby designates DTC as the initial Depositary. Such Global Certificates shall initially be registered on the books and records of the Company in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the Depositary, and no Beneficial Owner will receive a definitive Certificate representing such Beneficial Owner's interest in such Global Certificate, except as provided in Section 3.09. The Purchase Contract Agent shall enter into an agreement with the Depositary if so requested by the Company. Unless and until definitive, fully registered Certificates have been issued to Beneficial Owners pursuant to Section 3.09: 22
(i) the provisions of this Section 3.06 shall be in full force and effect; (ii) the Company shall be entitled to deal with the Depositary for all purposes of this Agreement (including making Purchase Contract Payments and receiving approvals, votes or consents hereunder) as the Holder of the Securities and the sole holder of the Global Certificates and shall have no obligation to the Beneficial Owners; (iii) to the extent that the provisions of this Section conflict with any other provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Section 3.06 shall control; and (iv) the rights of the Beneficial Owners shall be exercised only through the Depositary and shall be limited to those established by law and agreements between such Beneficial Owners and the Depositary or the Depositary Participants. SECTION 3.07 Notices to Holders. Whenever a notice or other communication to the Holders is required to be given under this Agreement, the Company or the Company's agent shall give such notices and communications to the Holders and, with respect to any Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary, the Company or the Company's agent shall, except as set forth herein, have no obligations to the Beneficial Owners. SECTION 3.08 Appointment of Successor Depositary. If the Depositary elects to discontinue its services as securities depositary with respect to the Securities, the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint a successor Depositary with respect to the Securities. SECTION 3.09 Definitive Certificates. If: (i) the Depositary elects to discontinue its services as securities depositary with respect to the Securities and a successor Depositary is not appointed pursuant to Section 3.08 within 90 days after such discontinuance; or (ii) the Company elects, after consultation with the Purchase Contract Agent, to terminate the book-entry system for the Securities, then (x) definitive Certificates shall be prepared by the Company with respect to such Securities and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and (y) upon surrender of the Global Certificates representing the Securities by the Depositary, accompanied by registration instructions, the Company shall cause definitive Certificates to be delivered to Beneficial Owners in accordance with the instructions of the Depositary. The Company shall not be liable for any delay in delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on and shall be protected in relying on, such instructions. Each definitive Certificate so delivered shall evidence Securities of the same kind and tenor as the Global Certificate so surrendered in respect thereof. 23
SECTION 3.10 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Certificates. If any mutilated Certificate is surrendered to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, a new Certificate, evidencing the same number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding. If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Certificate, and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to hold each of them and any agent of any of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent that such Certificate has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver to the Holder, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate, a new Certificate, evidencing the same number of Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver to the Holder, a Certificate on or after the Business Day immediately preceding the earliest of any Early Settlement Date for such lost or mutilated Certificate, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent shall: (i) if the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or an Early Settlement Date with respect to such lost or mutilated Certificate has occurred, deliver the shares of Common Stock issuable in respect of the Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Securities evidenced by such Certificate; or (ii) if a Cash Settlement or an Early Settlement Date with respect to such lost or mutilated Certificate shall have occurred or if a Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, transfer the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, evidenced thereby, in each case subject to the applicable conditions and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3.15 and Article Five hereof. (iii) Upon the issuance of any new Certificate under this Section, the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent may require the payment by the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Purchase Contract Agent) connected therewith. 24
Every new Certificate issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and of the Holder in respect of the Security evidenced thereby, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate (and the Securities evidenced thereby) shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits and be subject to all the obligations of this Agreement equally and proportionately with any and all other Certificates delivered hereunder. The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude, to the extent lawful, all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates. SECTION 3.11 Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Certificate for registration of transfer, the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, and any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent, may treat the Person in whose name such Certificate is registered as the owner of the Security evidenced thereby, for the purpose of receiving distributions on the Preferred Securities, the Treasury Securities, the Notes, or on the maturing quarterly interest strips of the Treasury Portfolio, as applicable, receiving Purchase Contract Payments, performance of the Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any distributions on the Preferred Securities, the Treasury Securities, the Notes, or Treasury Portfolio, as applicable, or Purchase Contract Payments payable on the Purchase Contracts, each constituting a part of the Security evidenced thereby shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company nor the Purchase Contract Agent, nor any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent, shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Global Certificate, nothing contained herein shall prevent the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent or any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary (or its nominee), as a Holder, with respect to such Global Certificate or impair, as between such Depositary and the related Beneficial Owner, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of rights of the Depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such Global Certificate. SECTION 3.12 Cancellation. All Certificates surrendered for delivery of shares of Common Stock on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, upon the transfer of Preferred Securities, Notes, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of that term) of the Treasury Portfolio or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, after the occurrence of a Termination Event or pursuant to an Early Settlement, or upon the registration of transfer or exchange of a Security, or a Collateral Substitution or the reestablishment of Corporate Units shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Purchase Contract Agent, be delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and, if not already cancelled, shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent for cancellation any Certificates previously authenticated, executed and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Certificates so delivered shall, upon Issuer Order, be promptly cancelled by the Purchase Contract Agent. No Certificates shall be authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holder and delivered in lieu of or in exchange for any Certificates cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Agreement. All cancelled Certificates held by the Purchase Contract Agent shall be disposed of in accordance with its customary practices. 25
If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall acquire any Certificate, such acquisition shall not operate as a cancellation of such Certificate unless and until such Certificate is delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent cancelled or for cancellation. SECTION 3.13 Creation of Treasury Units by Substitution of Treasury Securities. Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder may separate the Preferred Securities, the Notes or Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio, as applicable, from the related Purchase Contracts in respect of such Holder's Corporate Units by substituting for such Preferred Securities, Notes or Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio, as applicable, Treasury Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of such Preferred Securities, the principal amount of such Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) or the aggregate principal amount of such Notes, as applicable (a "Collateral Substitution"), at any time from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to or on the fifth Business Day (or the second Business Day, if a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption Date has occurred) immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. To effect such substitution, the Holder must: (1) deposit with the Securities Intermediary Treasury Securities having an aggregate principal amount at maturity equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause A of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio comprising part of such Corporate Units, as the case may be; and (2) transfer the related Corporate Units to the Purchase Contract Agent accompanied by a notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) stating that the Holder has transferred the relevant amount of Treasury Securities to the Securities Intermediary and (ii) requesting that the Purchase Contract Agent instruct the Collateral Agent to release the Preferred Securities, Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause A of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, underlying such Corporate Units, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly provide an instruction to such effect to the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit A to the Pledge Agreement. 26
Upon receipt of the Treasury Securities described in clause (1) above and the instruction described in clause (2) above, in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Collateral Agent will cause the Securities Intermediary to effect the release of such Preferred Securities, the Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or the Notes, as the case may be, from the Pledge, free and clear of the Company's security interest therein, and the transfer of such Preferred Securities, Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or the Notes, as the case may be, to the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder. Upon receipt thereof, the Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly: (i) cancel the related Corporate Units; (ii) transfer the Preferred Securities, the Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or the Notes, as the case may be, to the Holder; and (iii) authenticate, execute on behalf of such Holder and deliver a Treasury Units Certificate executed by the Company in accordance with Section 3.03 evidencing the same number of Purchase Contracts as were evidenced by the cancelled Corporate Units. Holders who elect to separate the Preferred Securities, the Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or the Notes, as the case may be, from the related Purchase Contracts and to substitute Treasury Securities for such Preferred Securities, the Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or the Notes, as the case may be, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses payable to the Collateral Agent for its services as Collateral Agent in respect of the substitution, and the Company shall not be responsible for any such fees or expenses. Holders may make Collateral Substitutions only in integral multiples of 20 Corporate Units; provided that, if the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, as a component of the Corporate Units as a result of a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption, Holders may make Collateral Substitutions at any time on or prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, but only in such integral multiples of Corporate Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be released in whole multiples. In the event a Holder making a Collateral Substitution pursuant to this Section 3.13 fails to effect a book-entry transfer of the Corporate Units or fails to deliver Corporate Units Certificates to the Purchase Contract Agent after depositing Treasury Securities with the Collateral Agent, any distributions on the Preferred Securities, the Notes or Applicable Ownership Interests in the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, constituting a part of such Corporate Units shall be held in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder, until such Corporate Units are so transferred or the Corporate Units Certificate is so delivered, as the case may be, or, such Holder provides evidence satisfactory to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent that such Corporate Units 27
Certificate has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company. Except as described in this Section 3.13 or in connection with a Cash Settlement, for so long as the Purchase Contract underlying a Corporate Unit remains in effect, such Corporate Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder in respect of the Preferred Securities, the Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or the Notes, as the case may be, and the Purchase Contract comprising such Corporate Units may be acquired, and may be transferred and exchanged, only as a Corporate Unit. SECTION 3.14 Reestablishment of Corporate Units. Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder of Treasury Units may reestablish Corporate Units at any time prior to or on, subject to the third succeeding paragraph, the fifth Business Day (or the second Business Day, if a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption Date has occurred) immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, by: (1) depositing with the Securities Intermediary Preferred Securities, Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or Notes, as the case may be, (i) in the case of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, having an aggregate liquidation amount (in the case of Preferred Securities) or aggregate principal amount (in the case of Notes), as the case may be, equal to the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Treasury Securities comprising part of the Treasury Units and (ii) in the case of Applicable Ownership Interests, such that the portion of such Applicable Ownership Interests described in clause (A) of the definition of such term represents an undivided beneficial ownership interest in principal or interest strips of U.S. treasury securities having an aggregate face amount equal to the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Treasury Securities comprising part of the Treasury Units; and (2) transferring the related Treasury Units to the Purchase Contract Agent accompanied by a notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) stating that the Holder has transferred the relevant amount of Preferred Securities, Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or Notes, as the case may be, to the Securities Intermediary and (ii) requesting that the Purchase Contract Agent instruct the Collateral Agent to release the Treasury Securities underlying such Treasury Units, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly provide an instruction to such effect to the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Pledge Agreement. Upon receipt of the Preferred Securities, Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio or the Notes, as the case may be, described in clause (1) above and the instruction described in clause (2) above, in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the 28
Collateral Agent will cause the Securities Intermediary to effect the release of the Treasury Securities having a corresponding aggregate principal amount at maturity from the Pledge, free and clear of the Company's security interest therein, and the transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder. Upon receipt thereof, the Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly: (i) cancel the related Treasury Units; (ii) transfer the Treasury Securities to the Holder; and (iii) authenticate, execute on behalf of such Holder and deliver a Corporate Units Certificate executed by the Company in accordance with Section 3.03 evidencing the same number of Purchase Contracts as were evidenced by the cancelled Treasury Units. Holders who elect to reestablish Corporate Units shall be responsible for any fees or expenses payable to the Collateral Agent for its services as Collateral Agent in respect of the reestablishment, and the Company shall not be responsible for any such fees or expenses. Holders of Treasury Units may only reestablish Corporate Units in integral multiples of 20 Treasury Units, provided that if the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, as a component of the Corporate Units as a result of a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption, Holders may convert their Treasury Units into Corporate Units by making Collateral Substitutions at any time on or prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, but only in such integral multiples of Treasury Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be purchased in whole multiples. Except as provided in this Section 3.14 or in connection with a Cash Settlement or an Early Settlement pursuant to either Section 5.04(b)(2) or Section 5.07, for so long as the Purchase Contract underlying a Treasury Unit remains in effect, such Treasury Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Treasury Unit in respect of the 1/20 of a Treasury Security and the Purchase Contract comprising such Treasury Unit may be acquired, and may be transferred and exchanged, only as a Treasury Unit. SECTION 3.15 Transfer of Collateral upon Occurrence of Termination Event. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event and the transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent of the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying the Corporate Units and the Treasury Units, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent shall request transfer instructions with respect to such Preferred Securities, Notes, appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, from each Holder by written request, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, mailed to such Holder at its address as it appears in the Security Register. 29
Upon book-entry transfer of the Corporate Units or the Treasury Units or delivery of a Corporate Units Certificate or Treasury Units Certificate to the Purchase Contract Agent with such transfer instructions, the Purchase Contract Agent shall transfer the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying such Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, to such Holder by book-entry transfer, or other appropriate procedures, in accordance with such instructions. In the event a Holder of Corporate Units or Treasury Units fails to effect such transfer or delivery, the Preferred Securities, Notes, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying such Corporate Units or Treasury Units, as the case may be, and any distributions thereon, shall be held in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder, until the earlier to occur of: (i) the transfer of such Corporate Units or Treasury Units or surrender of the Corporate Units Certificate or Treasury Units Certificate or receipt by the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent from such Holder of satisfactory evidence that such Corporate Units Certificate or Treasury Units Certificate has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company; and (ii) the expiration of the time period specified in the abandoned property laws of the relevant State in which the Purchase Contract Agent holds such property. SECTION 3.16 No Consent to Assumption. Each Holder of a Security, by acceptance thereof, shall be deemed expressly to have withheld any consent to the assumption under Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise, of the Purchase Contract by the Company or its trustee, receiver, liquidator or a person or entity performing similar functions in the event that the Company becomes the debtor under the Bankruptcy Code or subject to other similar state or Federal law providing for reorganization or liquidation. ARTICLE 4 The Preferred Securities, Notes and Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio SECTION 4.01 Distributions or Interest Payments; Rights to Distributions or Interest Payments Preserved. Any distribution on any Preferred Security or any interest payment on any Note or on the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio (as specified in clause (B) of the definition thereof), as the case may be, which is paid on any Payment Date shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent from the Collateral Agent as provided by the terms of the Pledge Agreement, be paid to the Person in whose name the Corporate Units Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Corporate Units Certificates) of which such Preferred 30
Security, Note or appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Any such distribution, other than a distribution in respect of the Applicable Ownership Interest in the Treasury Portfolio (as specified in clause (B) of the definition thereof), shall be subject to deferral at the option of the Company in accordance with the Indenture and the Declaration. Each Corporate Units Certificate evidencing Preferred Securities, Notes or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio delivered under this Agreement upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Corporate Units Certificate shall carry the right to accrued and unpaid interest or distributions, and to accrue interest or distributions, which were carried by the Preferred Securities, the Notes or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio underlying such other Corporate Units Certificate. In the case of any Corporate Units with respect to which Cash Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof, or with respect to which Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(2) or Section 5.07 hereof, or with respect to which a Collateral Substitution is effected, in each case on a date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on the next succeeding Payment Date, distributions on the Preferred Securities, the Notes or on the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, underlying such Corporate Units otherwise payable on such Payment Date shall be payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Cash Settlement or Early Settlement or Collateral Substitution, and such distributions shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent, be payable to the Person in whose name the Corporate Units Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Corporate Units Certificates) was registered at the close of business on the Record Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence, in the case of any Corporate Units with respect to which Cash Settlement or Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is properly effected, or with respect to which a Collateral Substitution has been effected, distributions on the related Preferred Securities, Notes or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, that would otherwise be payable after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, Early Settlement Date or the date of the Collateral Substitution, as the case may be, shall not be payable hereunder to the Holder of such Corporate Units; provided, however, that to the extent that such Holder continues to hold separated Preferred Securities or Notes that formerly comprised a part of such Holder's Corporate Units, such Holder shall be entitled to receive distributions on such separated Preferred Securities or Notes. SECTION 4.02 Notice and Voting. Under the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent will be entitled to exercise the voting and any other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, but only to the extent instructed in writing by the Holders as described below. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Preferred Securities or Notes are entitled to vote or upon any solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of Preferred 31
Securities or Notes, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail, first class, postage pre-paid, to the Holders of Corporate Units a notice: (i) containing such information as is contained in the notice or solicitation; (ii) stating that each Holder on the record date set by the Purchase Contract Agent therefor (which, to the extent possible, shall be the same date as the record date for determining the holders of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, entitled to vote) shall be entitled to instruct the Purchase Contract Agent as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to such Preferred Securities or Notes underlying their Corporate Units; and (iii) stating the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the Holders of Corporate Units on such record date received by the Purchase Contract Agent at least six days prior to such meeting, the Purchase Contract Agent shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum number of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, as to which any particular voting instructions are received. In the absence of specific instructions from the Holder of a Corporate Unit, the Purchase Contract Agent shall abstain from voting the Preferred Securities or Notes underlying such Corporate Unit. The Company hereby agrees, if applicable, to solicit Holders of Corporate Units to timely instruct the Purchase Contract Agent in order to enable the Purchase Contract Agent to vote such Preferred Securities or Notes and the Trust shall covenant to this effect in the Declaration. SECTION 4.03 Distribution of Notes; Tax Event Redemption. (a) Upon the dissolution and liquidation of the Trust in accordance with the Declaration, an aggregate principal amount of Notes constituting the assets of the Trust and underlying the Preferred Securities equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities shall be delivered to the Securities Intermediary in exchange for the Pledged Preferred Securities. Thereafter, the Notes will be substituted for the Pledged Preferred Securities as the Collateral, and will be held by the Securities Intermediary in the Collateral Account in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement to secure the obligations of each Holder of a Corporate Unit to purchase the Common Stock of the Company under the Purchase Contracts constituting a part of such Corporate Unit. (b) Intentionally Omitted. (c) Following the dissolution and liquidation of the Trust, the Holders and the Collateral Agent shall have such security interests, rights and obligations with respect to the Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, as the Holders and the Collateral Agent had in respect of the Preferred Securities subject to the Pledge thereof as provided in the Pledge Agreement. The Company may cause to be made in any Corporate Units Certificates thereafter to be issued such change in phraseology and form (but not in substance) as may be appropriate to reflect the dissolution and liquidation of the Trust and the substitution of Notes or the Applicable 32
Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, for Preferred Securities as Collateral. (d) Upon the occurrence of a Tax Event Redemption Date prior to the Initial Reset Date, or in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, an amount equal to the Redemption Amount, plus any accumulated and unpaid distributions or accrued and unpaid interest, as the case may be, payable on the Tax Event Redemption Date with respect to the Applicable Principal Amount or the principal amount of the Notes that are components of Corporate Units, as the case may be, shall be deposited in the Collateral Account in exchange for the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes, as the case may be. Thereafter, pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Collateral Agent shall cause the Securities Intermediary to apply an amount of such funds equal to the Redemption Amount to purchase on behalf of the Holders of Corporate Units the Treasury Portfolio and promptly remit the remaining portion of such funds to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of such Corporate Units. The Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio will be substituted as Collateral for the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes, as the case may be, and will be held by the Collateral Agent in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement to secure the obligation of each Holder of a Corporate Unit to purchase the Common Stock of the Company under the Purchase Contract constituting a part of such Corporate Unit. (e) Following the occurrence of a Tax Event Redemption Date prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Holders of Corporate Units and the Collateral Agent shall have such security interest rights and obligations with respect to the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio as the Holders of Corporate Units and the Collateral Agent had in respect of the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, subject to the Pledge thereof as provided in the Pledge Agreement, and any reference herein to the Preferred Securities or the Notes shall be deemed to be a reference to such Treasury Portfolio. The Company may cause to be made in any Corporate Units Certificates thereafter to be issued such change in phraseology and form (but not in substance) as may be appropriate to reflect the liquidation of the Trust and the substitution of the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio for Preferred Securities or Notes as Collateral. ARTICLE 5 The Purchase Contracts SECTION 5.01 Purchase of Shares of Common Stock. (a) Each Purchase Contract shall obligate the Holder of the related Security to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date at a price equal to the Stated Amount (the "Purchase Price"), a number of shares of Common Stock (subject to Section 5.09) equal to the Settlement Rate unless an Early Settlement has occurred in accordance with Section 5.04(b)(2) or 5.07 hereof or, prior to or on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, 33
there shall have occurred a Termination Event with respect to such Purchase Contract. The "Settlement Rate" is equal to: (i) if the Applicable Market Value (as defined below) is greater than or equal to $40.2480 (the "Threshold Appreciation Price"), 1.2423 shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract; (ii) if the Applicable Market Value is less than the Threshold Appreciation Price but greater than $33.54 (the "Reference Price"), the number of shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract having a value equal to the Stated Amount divided by the Applicable Market Value; and (iii) if the Applicable Market Value is less than or equal to the Reference Price, 1.4908 shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract, in each case subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.04 (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share). The "Applicable Market Value" means the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock on each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. The "Closing Price" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means: (i) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on such date; (ii) if the Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any such date, the closing sale price per share as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Stock is so listed; (iii) if the Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, the closing sale price per share as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market; (iv) if the Common Stock is not so reported, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization; or (v) if such bid price is not available, the market value of the Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company. A "Trading Day" means a day on which the Common Stock (1) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the close of business and (2) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities 34
exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock. (b) Each Holder of a Corporate Unit or a Treasury Unit, by its acceptance thereof: (i) irrevocably authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Purchase Contract on its behalf as its agent and attorney-in-fact (including, without limitation, the execution of Certificates on behalf of such Holder); (ii) agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof; (iii) covenants and agrees to perform its obligations under such Purchase Contract; (iv) consents to the provisions hereof; (v) irrevocably authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact; (vi) consents to, and agrees to be bound by, the Pledge of such Holder's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral Account, including the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio or the Treasury Securities pursuant to the Pledge Agreement; (vii) agrees to treat itself as the owner, for United States federal income tax purposes, of the applicable interest in the Collateral Account, including the Preferred Securities, the Notes and the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio or the Treasury Securities; and (viii) agrees to treat the Notes as indebtedness for all United States federal income tax purposes, provided that upon a Termination Event, the rights of the Holder of such Security under the Purchase Contract may be enforced without regard to any other rights or obligations. (c) Each Holder of a Corporate Unit or a Treasury Unit, by its acceptance thereof, further covenants and agrees, that to the extent and in the manner provided in Section 5.02 and the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, proceeds of the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the Treasury Securities or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as applicable, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments. (d) Upon registration of transfer of a Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee) by the terms of this 35
Agreement, the Purchase Contracts underlying such Certificate, the Pledge Agreement and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under this Agreement, the Purchase Contracts underlying the Certificate so transferred and the Pledge Agreement. The Company covenants and agrees, and each Holder of a Certificate, by its acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph. SECTION 5.02 Initial and Secondary Remarketing; Payment of Purchase Price. (a) (i) Unless a Tax Event Redemption has occurred, the Company shall engage Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as remarketing agent (the "Remarketing Agent") pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement (and subject to removal as provided in the Remarketing Agreement) to sell the Preferred Securities or Notes referred to in the next succeeding sentence in the Initial Remarketing on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date. In order to facilitate the Initial Remarketing, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Custodial Agent shall notify the Remarketing Agent, by 11:00 a.m. (New York City time), on the Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date, of the aggregate liquidation amount of Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of Notes, as the case may be, that are part of Corporate Units and the aggregate liquidation amount or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Separate Preferred Securities or Notes that are to be remarketed pursuant to clause (ii) below. Concurrently, the Collateral Agent, pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, or the Custodial Agent, pursuant to clause (ii) below, will present for Remarketing such Notes to the Remarketing Agent. Upon receipt of such notice from the Purchase Contract Agent and the Custodial Agent and such Preferred Securities or Notes from the Collateral Agent and the Custodial Agent, the Remarketing Agent will, on the Initial Remarketing Date, use its reasonable efforts to remarket such Preferred Securities or Notes on such date at a price of approximately 100.25% (but not less than 100%) of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price, and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be. If the Remarketing Agent is able to remarket the Preferred Securities or Notes at a price equal to or greater than 100% of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be (a "Successful Initial Remarketing"), the portion of the proceeds from such Successful Initial Remarketing equal to the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price will be applied to purchase the Treasury Portfolio. In addition, the Remarketing Agent may deduct as a remarketing fee (the "Remarketing Fee") an amount not exceeding 25 basis points (0.25%) of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, from any amount of such proceeds in excess of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be. With respect to Separate Preferred Securities or Notes, any proceeds of the Initial Remarketing in excess of the Remarketing Fee attributable to the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes will be remitted to the Custodial Agent for payment to the holders of Separate Preferred Securities or Notes. With respect to Preferred Securities or Notes that are part of Corporate Units, any proceeds of the Initial Remarketing in excess of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price and the 36
Remarketing Fee with respect to such Preferred Securities or Notes will be remitted to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the related Corporate Units. Neither the Company nor any Corporate Unit Holders whose Preferred Securities or Notes are so remarketed will otherwise be responsible for the payment of any Remarketing Fee in connection therewith. The Treasury Portfolio will be substituted for the Preferred Securities or Notes of Holders of Corporate Units and the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio will be pledged to the Collateral Agent to secure the Corporate Unit Holders' obligation to pay the Purchase Price for the Common Stock under the related Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Following the occurrence of a Successful Initial Remarketing, the Holders of Corporate Units and the Collateral Agent shall have such security interests, rights and obligations with respect to the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) in the Treasury Portfolio as the Holder of Corporate Units and the Collateral Agent had in respect of the Preferred Securities or Notes, subject to the Pledge thereof as provided in the Pledge Agreement, and any reference herein or in the Certificates to the Preferred Securities or Notes shall be deemed to be a reference to such Applicable Ownership Interests in the Treasury Portfolio and any reference herein or in the Certificates to distributions or interest on the Preferred Securities or Notes, respectively, shall be deemed to be a reference to corresponding distributions on such Applicable Ownership Interests in the Treasury Portfolio. The Company may cause to be made in any Corporate Units Certificates thereafter to be issued such change in phraseology and form (but not in substance) as may be appropriate to reflect the substitution of such Applicable Ownership Interests in the Treasury Portfolio for Preferred Securities or Notes as Collateral. If, in spite of using its reasonable efforts, the Remarketing Agent cannot remarket the related Preferred Securities or Notes in the Initial Remarketing (other than to the Company) at a price not less than 100% of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, or a condition precedent set forth in the Remarketing Agreement is not fulfilled, the Remarketing will be deemed to have failed (a "Failed Initial Remarketing"). The Company will cause a notice of a Failed Initial Remarketing to be published on the Business Day immediately following the Initial Remarketing Date in a newspaper published each business day in the English language of general circulation in The City of New York, which is expected to be The Wall Street Journal. (ii) A holder of a Preferred Security or a Note that is no longer part of a Corporate Unit may elect to have such Preferred Security or Note remarketed in the Initial Remarketing. A holder making such an election must notify the Custodial Agent on or prior to 5:00 p.m. on the second Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date (but in no event earlier than the Payment Date next preceding the Initial Remarketing Date) of the aggregate liquidation amount or aggregate principal amount of Preferred Securities or Notes that are not part of Corporate Units to be remarketed and deliver such Preferred Securities or Notes to the Custodial Agent at that time. Any such notice will be irrevocable (provided that, holders of such Preferred Securities or Notes may withdraw any such notice on or prior to the second Business Day preceding the Initial Remarketing Date) and may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate is established in the Remarketing. By 11:00 a.m. (New York City 37
time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent shall cause such Preferred Securities or Notes to be presented to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing. (iii) Not later than 7 calendar days nor more than 15 calendar days prior to the Initial Remarketing Date, the Company shall request the Depositary to notify the Beneficial Owners or Depositary Participants holding Securities of the procedures to be followed in the Initial Remarketing. (iv) If required by applicable law, the Company agrees to endeavor to ensure that a registration statement with regard to the full amount of the Preferred Securities or Notes to be remarketed in the Initial Remarketing shall be effective with the Securities Exchange Commission in a form that will enable the Remarketing Agent to rely on it in connection with the Initial Remarketing. (b) (i) Unless a Tax Event Redemption Date, Successful Initial Remarketing, Termination Event or Early Settlement has occurred, each Holder who intends to pay in cash to satisfy such Holder's obligations under the Purchase Contract on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date shall notify the Purchase Contract Agent by use of a notice in substantially the form of Exhibit E hereto of his intention to pay in cash ("Cash Settlement") the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased pursuant to the related Purchase Contract. Such notice shall be given prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the next succeeding Business Day, the Purchase Contract Agent shall notify the Collateral Agent and the Property Trustee or the Indenture Trustee, as the case may be, of the receipt of such notices from Holders intending to make a Cash Settlement. (ii) A Holder of a Corporate Unit who has so notified the Purchase Contract Agent of his intention to effect a Cash Settlement in accordance with paragraph 5.02(b)(i) above shall pay the Purchase Price to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account at or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers' check, or wire transfer of immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary. Any cash received by the Collateral Agent shall be invested promptly by the Securities Intermediary in Permitted Investments and paid to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in settlement of the Purchase Contracts in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. Any funds received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of the investment earnings from such Permitted Investments in excess of the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased by such Holder shall be distributed to the Purchase Contract Agent when received for payment to the Holder. (iii) If a Holder of a Corporate Unit fails to notify the Purchase Contract Agent of his intention to make a Cash Settlement in accordance with paragraph 5.02(b)(i) above, such Holder shall be deemed to have consented to the disposition of the Pledged 38
Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes pursuant to the Secondary Remarketing as described in paragraph 5.02(c) below. (iv) Promptly after 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Purchase Contract Agent, based on notices received by the Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to Section 5.02(b) hereof, shall notify the Collateral Agent and the Property Trustee or the Indenture Trustee, as applicable, of the aggregate liquidation amount of Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of Notes to be tendered for purchase in the Remarketing in a notice substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto. (v) Not later than 7 calendar days nor more than 15 calendar days prior to the Secondary Remarketing Date, the Company shall request the Depositary to notify the Beneficial Owners or Depositary Participants holding Securities of the procedures to be followed in the Secondary Remarketing. (vi) If required by applicable law, the Company agrees to endeavor to ensure that a registration statement with regard to the full amount of the Preferred Securities or Notes to be remarketed in the Remarketing shall be effective with the Securities Exchange Commission in a form that will enable the Remarketing Agent to rely on it in connection with the Secondary Remarketing. (c) (i) Unless a Tax Event Redemption or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred, the Preferred Securities or Notes of Corporate Unit Holders who have not notified the Purchase Contract Agent of their intention to effect a Cash Settlement as provided in paragraph 5.02(b)(i) above will be sold by the Remarketing Agent (the "Secondary Remarketing") on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (the "Secondary Remarketing Date"). In order to facilitate the Secondary Remarketing, the Purchase Contract Agent, based on the notices specified in Section 5.02(b)(iv), and the Custodial Agent, based on the notices specified in Section 5.02(c)(ii), shall notify the Remarketing Agent, by 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Secondary Remarketing Date, of the aggregate liquidation amount of Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of Notes, as the case may be, that are part of Corporate Units and of the aggregate liquidation amount of Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of Notes, as the case may be, that are no longer part of Corporate Units that are to be remarketed pursuant to clause (ii) below. Concurrently, the Collateral Agent in its capacity as such or as Custodial Agent, pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, shall cause such Preferred Securities or Notes to be presented to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing. (ii) A holder of a Preferred Security or a Note that is no longer part of a Corporate Unit may elect to have such Preferred Security or Note remarketed. A holder making such an election must notify the Custodial Agent and deliver such Preferred Securities or Notes to the Custodial Agent on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (but in no event earlier than the Payment Date next preceding the Secondary Remarketing Date), of the aggregate number of Preferred Securities or Notes that are not part of Corporate Units to 39
be remarketed. Any such notice will be irrevocable (provided that, holders of such Preferred Securities or Notes may withdraw any such notice on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date) and may not be conditioned upon the level at which the Reset Rate is established in the Remarketing. By 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Secondary Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent shall cause such Preferred Securities or Notes to be presented to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing. (iii) Upon receipt of such notice from the Purchase Contract Agent and the Custodial Agent and such Preferred Securities or Notes from the Collateral Agent and the Custodial Agent, as set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) above, the Remarketing Agent shall, on the Secondary Remarketing Date, use reasonable efforts to remarket such Preferred Securities or Notes on such date at a price equal to 100.25% (but not less than 100%) of the aggregate liquidation amount of Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of such Notes, as the case may be, plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, thereon, as provided in the Remarketing Agreement. If the Remarketing Agent is able to remarket the Preferred Securities or Notes at a price equal to or greater than 100% of the aggregate liquidation amount of Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of Notes plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, thereon (a "Successful Secondary Remarketing"), the Remarketing Agent will remit the proceeds from such Successful Secondary Remarketing to the Collateral Agent; provided that the Remarketing Agent may deduct as the Remarketing Fee an amount not exceeding 25 basis points (0.25%) of the aggregate liquidation amount of the remarketed Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of the remarketed Notes, as the case may be, from any amount of the proceeds of a Successful Secondary Remarketing in excess of the aggregate liquidation amount of remarketed Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of the remarketed Notes, plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, thereon. The proceeds from the Remarketing remitted to the Collateral Agent shall be invested by the Collateral Agent in Permitted Investments, in accordance with the Pledge Agreement, and then applied to satisfy in full such Corporate Unit Holders' obligations to pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock under the related Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Any proceeds in excess of those required to pay the Purchase Price and the Remarketing Fee will be remitted to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the related Corporate Units. Corporate Unit Holders whose Preferred Securities or Notes are so remarketed will not otherwise be responsible for the payment of any Remarketing Fee in connection therewith. With respect to Separate Preferred Securities or Notes, any proceeds of the Secondary Remarketing in excess of the Remarketing Fee attributable to the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes will be remitted to the Custodial Agent for payment to the holders of Separate Preferred Securities or Notes. (iv) If, in spite of using its reasonable efforts, the Remarketing Agent cannot remarket the related Preferred Securities or Notes of such Holders of Corporate Units at a price not less than 100.0% of their aggregate liquidation amount or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, plus the amount of any deferred and unpaid distributions or interest or a condition precedent set forth in the Remarketing Agreement is not fulfilled, 40
the Remarketing will be deemed to have failed (a "Failed Secondary Remarketing"), an event of default shall be deemed to have occurred under this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement and in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, shall exercise its rights as a secured party with respect to such Preferred Securities or Notes, including, without limitation, those actions specified in paragraph 5.02(d) below; provided, that if upon a Failed Secondary Remarketing the Collateral Agent exercises such rights for the benefit of the Company with respect to such Preferred Securities or Notes, any accrued and unpaid distributions on such Preferred Securities or interest on such Notes shall become payable by the Company to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Beneficial Owner of the Corporate Units to which such Notes relate. The Company shall cause a notice of such Failed Secondary Remarketing to be published on the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in a newspaper published each business day in the English language of general circulation in the City of New York, which is expected to be The Wall Street Journal and such notice shall include the procedures that must be followed if a Holder of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, wishes to exercise its rights to put the Preferred Securities or Notes to the Trust or the Company, as the case may be, following a Failed Secondary Remarketing, as set forth in the Declaration and Indenture. (d) With respect to any (i) Preferred Securities or Notes which are subject to a Failed Secondary Remarketing or (ii) any Preferred Securities or Notes which are components of Corporate Units with respect to which the Holder notified the Purchase Contract Agent as provided in Section 5.02(b)(i) of his intention to pay the Purchase Price in cash, but failed to make such payment as required by Section 5.02(b)(ii), in each case, resulting in an event of default under this Agreement, the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Company reserves all of its rights as a secured party with respect thereto and, subject to applicable law and paragraph 5.02(h) below, shall, in full satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Purchase Contracts among other things, (i) retain the Preferred Securities or Notes, (ii) sell the Preferred Securities or Notes in one or more public or private sales or (iii) take, or choose not to take, any other action with respect to the Preferred Securities or the Notes, which in every case specified in (i), (ii) and (iii) shall constitute payment in full for the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased under the Purchase Contracts. (e) (i) Unless a Holder of a Corporate Unit (if a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred) or a Treasury Unit effects an Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract through the early delivery of cash to the Purchase Contract Agent in the manner described in Section 5.07, each Holder of a Corporate Unit (if a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred) or a Treasury Unit who intends to pay in cash shall notify the Purchase Contract Agent by use of a notice in substantially the form of Exhibit E hereto of his intention to pay in cash the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased pursuant to the related Purchase Contract. Such notice shall be given prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the next succeeding Business Day, the Purchase Contract Agent shall notify the Collateral Agent 41
of the receipt of such notices from such Holders intending to make a Cash Settlement. Treasury Unit Holders may make Cash Settlements only in integral multiples of 20 Treasury Units. (ii) A Holder of a Corporate Unit (if a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred) or a Treasury Unit who has so notified the Purchase Contract Agent of his intention to make a Cash Settlement in accordance with paragraph 5.02(e)(i) above shall pay the Purchase Price to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers' check or wire transfer, in each case in immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary. Any cash received by the Collateral Agent shall be invested promptly by the Securities Intermediary in Permitted Investments and paid to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in settlement of the Purchase Contract in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. Any funds received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of the investment earnings from the investment in such Permitted Investments in excess of the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased by such Holder shall be distributed to the Purchase Contract Agent when received for payment to the Holder. (iii) If a Holder of a Corporate Unit (if a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred) or a Treasury Unit fails to notify the Purchase Contract Agent of his intention to make a Cash Settlement in accordance with paragraph 5.02(e)(i) above, or does notify the Purchase Contract Agent as provided in paragraph 5.02(e)(i) above of his intention to pay the Purchase Price in cash, but fails to make such payment as required by paragraph 5.02(e)(ii) above, then upon the maturity of the Pledged Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio held by the Securities Intermediary on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the principal amount of the Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio received by the Securities Intermediary shall be invested promptly in Permitted Investments. On the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, an amount equal to the Purchase Price shall be remitted to the Company as payment thereof without receiving any instructions from the Holder. In the event the sum of the proceeds from the related Pledged Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio and the investment earnings earned from such investments is in excess of the aggregate Purchase Price of the Purchase Contracts being settled thereby, the Collateral Agent shall cause the Securities Intermediary to distribute such excess to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holder of the related Treasury Units or Corporate Units when received. (f) Any distribution to Holders of any payments described above shall be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City maintained for that purpose or, at 42
the option of the Holder, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such address as it appears on the Security Register. (g) Upon Cash Settlement of any Purchase Contract: (i) the Collateral Agent will in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement cause the Pledged Preferred Securities, Pledged Notes, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio or the Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, underlying the relevant Security to be released from the Pledge, free and clear of any security interest of the Company, and transferred to the Purchase Contract Agent for delivery to the Holder thereof or its designee as soon as practicable; and (ii) subject to the receipt thereof, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, by book-entry transfer or other appropriate procedures, in accordance with written instructions provided by the Holder thereof, transfer such Preferred Securities, Notes, or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio or such Treasury Securities, as the case may be (or, if no such instructions are given to the Purchase Contract Agent by the Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent shall hold such Preferred Securities, Notes, or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio or such Treasury Securities, as the case may be, and any interest payment thereon, in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder until the expiration of the time period specified in the abandoned property laws of the relevant state where such property is held). (h) The obligations of the Holders to pay the Purchase Price are non-recourse obligations and, except to the extent satisfied by Early Settlement or Cash Settlement, are payable solely out of the proceeds of any Collateral pledged to secure the obligations of the Holders and in no event will Holders be liable for any deficiency between the proceeds of the disposition of Collateral and the Purchase Price. (i) The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates thereof to the Holder of the related Security unless the Company shall have received payment in full for the aggregate Purchase Price for the Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner herein set forth. SECTION 5.03 Issuance of Shares of Common Stock. Unless a Termination Event or an Early Settlement shall have occurred, subject to Section 5.04(b), on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date upon receipt of the aggregate Purchase Price payable on all Outstanding Securities, the Company shall issue and deposit with the Purchase Contract Agent, for the benefit of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities, one or more certificates representing newly issued shares of Common Stock registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent (or its nominee) as custodian for the Holders (such certificates for shares of Common Stock, together with any dividends or distributions for which a record date 43
and payment date for such dividend or distribution has occurred after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date and any cash in lieu of fractional shares required by Section 5.09, being hereinafter referred to as the "Purchase Contract Settlement Fund") to which the Holders are entitled hereunder. Subject to the foregoing, upon surrender of a Certificate to the Purchase Contract Agent on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or Early Settlement Date, as the case may be, together with settlement instructions thereon duly completed and executed, the Holder of such Certificate shall be entitled to receive forthwith in exchange therefor a certificate representing that number of newly issued whole shares of Common Stock which such Holder is entitled to receive pursuant to the provisions of this Article Five (after taking into account all Securities then held by such Holder), together with cash in lieu of fractional shares as provided in Section 5.09 and any dividends or distributions with respect to such shares constituting part of the Purchase Contract Settlement Fund, but without any interest thereon, and the Certificate so surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled. Such shares shall be registered in the name of the Holder or the Holder's designee as specified in the settlement instructions provided by the Holder to the Purchase Contract Agent. If any shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Purchase Contract are to be registered to a Person other than the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing such Purchase Contract is registered, no such registration shall be made unless the Person requesting such registration has paid any transfer and other taxes required by reason of such registration in a name other than that of the registered Holder of the Certificate evidencing such Purchase Contract or has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax either has been paid or is not payable. SECTION 5.04 Adjustment of Settlement Rate. (a) Adjustments for Dividends, Distributions, Stock Splits, Etc. (1) In case the Company shall pay or make a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock in Common Stock, the Settlement Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution shall be increased by dividing such Settlement Rate by a fraction of which: (i) the numerator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination; and (ii) the denominator shall be the sum of such number of shares and the total number of shares constituting such dividend or other distribution, such increase to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Business Day following the date fixed for such determination. For the purposes of this paragraph (1), the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include any shares issuable in respect of any scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Company agrees that it shall not pay 44
any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company. (2) In case the Company shall, after the date hereof, issue rights, warrants or options to all holders of its Common Stock (not being available on an equivalent basis to Holders of the Securities upon settlement of the Purchase Contracts underlying such Securities), other than pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plans, entitling them, for a period expiring within 45 days after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights, warrants or options, to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the date of announcement of such issuance, the Settlement Rate in effect at the opening of business on the Business Day following the date of such announcement shall be increased by dividing such Settlement Rate by a fraction of which: (i) the numerator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of shares of Common Stock which the aggregate of the offering price of the total number of shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at such Current Market Price; and (ii) the denominator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase, such increase to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Business Day following the date of such announcement. The Company agrees that it shall notify the Purchase Contract Agent if any issuance of such rights, warrants or options is cancelled or not completed following the announcement thereof and the Settlement Rate shall thereupon be readjusted to the Settlement Rate in effect immediately prior to the date of such announcement. For the purposes of this paragraph (2), the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include any shares issuable in respect of any scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Company agrees that it shall not issue any such rights, warrants or options in respect of shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company. (3) In case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be subdivided or split into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, the Settlement Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision or split becomes effective shall be proportionately increased, and, conversely, in case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall each be combined into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, the Settlement Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such combination becomes effective shall be proportionately reduced, such increase or reduction, as the case may be, to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Business Day following the day upon which such subdivision, split or combination becomes effective. 45
(4) In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock evidences of its indebtedness or assets (including securities, but excluding any rights, warrants or options referred to in paragraph (2) of this Section 5.04(a), any dividend or distribution paid exclusively in cash and any dividend or distribution referred to in paragraph (1) of this Section 5.04(a)), the Settlement Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by dividing the Settlement Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction of which: (i) the numerator shall be the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the date fixed for such determination less the then fair market value (as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and the basis for which shall be described in a Board Resolution) of the portion of the assets or evidences of indebtedness so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock; and (ii) the denominator shall be such Current Market Price per share of Common Stock, such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution. In any case in which this paragraph (4) is applicable, paragraph (2) of this Section 5.04(a) shall not be applicable. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Settlement Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Settlement Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. (5) In case the Company shall, (I) by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock cash (excluding any cash that is distributed in a Reorganization Event to which Section 5.04(b) applies or as part of a distribution referred to in paragraph (4) of this Section) in an aggregate amount that, combined together with (II) the aggregate amount of any other distributions to all holders of its Common Stock made exclusively in cash within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of such distribution and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this paragraph (5) or paragraph (6) of this Section has been made and (III) the aggregate of any cash plus the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a Board Resolution) of consideration payable in respect of any tender or exchange offer by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for all or any portion of the Common Stock concluded within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of the distribution described in clause (I) above and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this paragraph (5) or paragraph (6) of this Section has been made, exceeds 15% of the product of the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the date for the determination of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive such distribution multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such date, then, in each such case, the Settlement Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by dividing the Settlement Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on such record date by a fraction of which: 46
(i) the numerator shall be the Current Market Price of Common Stock on the record date less the amount of cash so distributed (and not excluded as provided above) applicable to one share of Common Stock; and (ii) the denominator shall be the Current Market Price of Common Stock, such increase to be effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the record date; provided, however, that in the event the portion of cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the record date, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each holder of a Security shall have the right to receive upon settlement of the Securities the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder settled each Security on the record date. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Settlement Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Settlement Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. (6) In case a tender or exchange offer made by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for all or any portion of Common Stock shall expire and such tender or exchange offer (as amended upon the expiration thereof) shall require the payment to shareholders (based on the acceptance (up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer) of Purchased Shares (as herein defined) of (I) an aggregate consideration having a fair market value (as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and the basis for which shall be described in a Board Resolution) that combined together with the aggregate of the cash plus the fair market value (as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and the basis for which shall be described in a Board Resolution), as of the expiration of such tender or exchange offer, of consideration payable in respect of any other tender or exchange offer, by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for all or any portion of Common Stock expiring within the 12 months preceding the expiration of such tender or exchange offer and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this paragraph (6) has been made, and (II) the aggregate amount of any distributions to all holders of Common Stock made exclusively in cash within the 12 months preceding the expiration of such tender or exchange offer and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to paragraph (6) has been made, exceeds 15% of the product of the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock as of the last time (the "Expiration Time") tenders could have been made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended) times the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered shares) on the Expiration Time, then, and in each such case, immediately prior to the opening of business on the day after the date of the Expiration Time, the Settlement Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by dividing the Settlement Rate immediately prior to the close of business on the date of the Expiration Time by a fraction: (i) the numerator of which shall be equal to (A) the product of (I) the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the date of the Expiration Time and (II) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered shares) on the Expiration Time less (B) the amount of cash plus the fair market value (determined as aforesaid) of the aggregate consideration payable to shareholders based on the 47
transactions described in clauses (I) and (II) above (assuming in the case of clause (I) the acceptance, up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer, of Purchased Shares); and (ii) the denominator of which shall be equal to the product of (A) the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock as of the Expiration Time and (B) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered shares) as of the Expiration Time less the number of all shares validly tendered and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Time (the shares deemed so accepted, up to any such maximum, being referred to as the "Purchased Shares"). (7) The reclassification of Common Stock into securities including securities other than Common Stock (other than any reclassification upon a Reorganization Event to which Section 5.04(b) applies) shall be deemed to involve: (i) a distribution of such securities other than Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution" and the "date fixed for such determination" within the meaning of paragraph (4) of this Section); and (ii) a subdivision, split or combination, as the case may be, of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such reclassification into the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately thereafter (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the day upon which such subdivision or split becomes effective" or "the day upon which such combination becomes effective", as the case may be, and "the day upon which such subdivision, split or combination becomes effective" within the meaning of paragraph (3) of this Section). (8) The "Current Market Price" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means the average of the daily Closing Prices for the ten consecutive Trading Days selected by the Company ending not later than the earlier of such date of determination and the day before the "ex date" with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "ex date," when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, shall mean the first date on which Common Stock trades regular way on such exchange or in such market without the right to receive such issuance or distribution. (9) All adjustments to the Settlement Rate shall be calculated by the Company to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share of Common Stock (or if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share). No adjustment in the Settlement Rate shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent thereof; provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this subparagraph are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. If any announcement of an issuance of rights, warrants or options or the declaration of a date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive a dividend or distribution requiring adjustment pursuant to this Section 5.04(a) shall subsequently be canceled by the 48
Company, or such dividend, distribution or issuance shall fail to receive requisite approval or fail to occur, the Settlement Rate shall be readjusted to the Settlement Rate which would then have been in effect had adjustment for such event not been made. If an adjustment is made to the Settlement Rate pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) or (10) of this Section 5.04(a), an adjustment shall also be made to the Applicable Market Value solely to determine which of clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Settlement Rate in Section 5.01 will apply on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Such adjustment shall be made by multiplying the Applicable Market Value by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the Settlement Rate immediately after such adjustment pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) or (10) of this Section 5.04(a) and the denominator shall be the Settlement Rate immediately prior to such adjustment; provided, however, that if such adjustment to the Settlement Rate is required to be made pursuant to the occurrence of any of the events contemplated by paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) or (10) of this Section 5.04(a) during the period taken into consideration for determining the Applicable Market Value, appropriate and customary adjustments shall be made to the Settlement Rate. (10) The Company may, but shall not be required to, make such increases in the Settlement Rate, in addition to those required by this Section, as it considers to be advisable in order to avoid or diminish any income tax to any holders of shares of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock or issuance of rights or warrants to purchase or subscribe for stock or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes or for any other reason. (b) Adjustment for Consolidation, Merger or Other Reorganization Event. (1) In the event of: (i) any consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another Person (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company is the continuing corporation and in which the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger or consolidation are not exchanged for cash, securities or other property of the Company or another corporation); (ii) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety; (iii) any statutory share exchange of the Company with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition); or (iv) any liquidation, dissolution or termination of the Company other than as a result of or after the occurrence of a Termination Event, (any such event, a "Reorganization Event"), each Purchase Contract will be automatically adjusted to provide that each Holder of Securities will receive on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or any Early Settlement Date occurring after such Reorganization Event, as the case may be, with respect to each Purchase Contract 49
forming a part thereof, the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event (without any interest thereon, and without any right to dividends or distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the Early Settlement Date or Purchase Contract Settlement Date, as the case may be) by a Holder in respect of Common Stock issuable on account of each Purchase Contract as if the Purchase Contract Settlement Date had occurred immediately prior to such Reorganization Event. The amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon settlement of each Purchase Contract (other than in connection with an Early Settlement pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(2)) shall equal the Adjusted Exchange Property. For purposes of the foregoing, it is assumed that the Holder referred to in the second preceding sentence is not a Person with which the Company consolidated or into which the Company merged or which merged into the Company or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such Person, a "Constituent Person"), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person to the extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Company and non-affiliates and such Holder failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event (provided that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event by other than a Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof and in respect of which such rights of election shall not have been exercised ("non-electing share"), then for the purpose of this Section the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event by each non-electing share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares). The "Adjusted Exchange Property" shall equal (A) in the case of settlement of a Purchase Contract on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, an amount of Base Exchange Property multiplied by the applicable Settlement Rate (which Settlement Rate, for purposes of this Section 5.04(b)(1), shall be determined by reference to the Applicable Exchange Property Market Value in lieu of the Applicable Market Value and which shall be applied as if the Base Exchange Property were one share of Common Stock); and (B) in the case of an Early Settlement pursuant to Section 5.07, an amount of Base Exchange Property multiplied by the Early Settlement Rate (which shall be applied as if the Base Exchange Property were one share of Common Stock). "Base Exchange Property" means the hypothetical amount of securities, cash and other property that would have been received upon consummation of the Reorganization Event in exchange for one share of Common Stock. "Applicable Exchange Property Market Value" shall mean (1) with respect to any publicly traded securities receivable by holders of Common Stock pursuant to a Reorganization Event, the Closing Price of such securities (substituting such securities for Common Stock in the definition of the term Closing Price), (2) in the case of any cash receivable by holders of Common Stock pursuant to a Reorganization Event, the amount of such cash and (3) in the case 50
of any other property receivable by holders of Common Stock pursuant to a Reorganization Event, the market value of such property, as determined by a nationally recognized investment banking firm retained by the Company for this purpose. In the event of such a Reorganization Event, the Person formed by such consolidation, merger or exchange or the Person which acquires the assets of the Company or, in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or termination of the Company, the Company or a liquidating trust created in connection therewith, shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent an agreement supplemental hereto providing that each Holder of an Outstanding Security shall have the rights provided by this Section 5.04(b). Such supplemental agreement shall provide for adjustments which, for events subsequent to the effective date of such supplemental agreement, shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Section 5.04. The above provisions of this Section 5.04 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events. (2) In the event of a consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another Person, any merger of another Person into the Company (other than a merger that does not result in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of outstanding shares of Common Stock) in which 30% or more of the total consideration paid to the Company's shareholders consists of cash or cash equivalents (a "Cash Merger"), then a Holder of a Security may settle his Purchase Contract for cash as described in Section 5.02(b)(i) or 5.02(e)(i) hereof, as applicable, on or after the date of the Cash Merger, at the Settlement Rate then in effect as if the date of such settlement were the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Within five Business Days of the completion of a Cash Merger, the Company shall provide written notice to Holders of Securities of such completion of a Cash Merger, which shall specify the deadline for submitting a notice of Early Settlement pursuant to this Section 5.04(b)(2), the applicable Settlement Rate and the amount (per share of common stock) of cash, securities and other consideration receivable by the Holder upon settlement. For the purposes of this Section 5.04(b)(2), the date of the closing of the merger or consolidation shall be deemed to be the Purchase Contract Settlement Date for the purpose of determining the Applicable Market Value and the deadline for submitting the notice to settle early and the related cash payment of the Purchase Price shall be 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the tenth Business Day after the date the notice relating to a Cash Merger is provided to the Holders by the Company. Treasury Unit Holders may only effect Early Settlement pursuant to this Section 5.04(b)(2) in integral multiples of 20 Purchase Contracts. If a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred, Corporate Unit Holders may effect Early Settlement pursuant to this Section 5.04(b)(2) only in such multiples of Corporate Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be released in whole multiples. Other than the provisions relating to timing of notice and settlement, which shall be as set forth above, the provisions of Section 5.01(a) shall apply with respect to an Early Settlement following a Cash Merger pursuant to this Section 5.04(b)(2). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Early Settlement will be permitted pursuant to this Section 5.04(b)(2) unless, at the time such Early Settlement is effected, there is an effective Registration Statement with respect to the shares of Common Stock to be issued and delivered in connection with such Early Settlement, if such a Registration Statement is required (in the view of counsel, which need not be in the form of a written opinion, for either the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent) under the Securities 51
Act. If such a Registration Statement is so required, the Company covenants and agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to (A) have in effect a Registration Statement covering the shares of Common Stock to be delivered in respect of the Purchase Contracts being settled and (B) provide a Prospectus in connection therewith, in each case in a form that the Purchase Contract Agent may use in connection with such early settlement. (c) All calculations and determinations pursuant to this Section 5.04 shall be made by the Company or its agent and the Purchase Contract Agent shall have no responsibility with respect thereto. SECTION 5.05 Notice of Adjustments and Certain Other Events. (a) Whenever the Settlement Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall: (i) forthwith compute the adjusted Settlement Rate in accordance with Section 5.04 and prepare and transmit to the Purchase Contract Agent an Officer's Certificate setting forth the Settlement Rate, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; and (ii) within 10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires an adjustment to the Settlement Rate pursuant to Section 5.04 (or if the Company is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as practicable after becoming so aware), provide a written notice to the Holders of the Securities of the occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the method by which the adjustment to the Settlement Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted Settlement Rate. (b) The Purchase Contract Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Securities to determine whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Settlement Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the same. The Purchase Contract Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at the time be issued or delivered with respect to any Purchase Contract; and the Purchase Contract Agent makes no representation with respect thereto. The Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Purchase Contract or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article. SECTION 5.06 Termination Event; Notice. The Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Purchase Contract Payments (including any deferred or accrued and unpaid Purchase Contract Payments), if the Company shall have such obligation, and the rights 52
and obligations of Holders to purchase Common Stock, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent or the Company, if, prior to or on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Termination Event shall have occurred. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Securities shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, forming part of such Securities, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.04 of the Pledge Agreement. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. SECTION 5.07 Early Settlement. (a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 5.07, at the option of the Holder thereof, Purchase Contracts underlying Securities may effect Early Settlement on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day (if they are components of Corporate Units) or the second Business Day (if they are components of Treasury Units or components of Corporate Units and the Applicable Ownership Interest in the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities as a component of the Corporate Units) immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Holders of Treasury Units may only effect Early Settlement of the related Purchase Contracts in integral multiples of 20 Purchase Contracts. If a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption has occurred, Corporate Unit Holders may effect Early Settlement on or prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date only in such multiples of Corporate Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be released in whole multiples. In order to exercise the right to effect Early Settlement with respect to any Purchase Contracts, the Holder of the Certificate evidencing Securities shall deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office an "Election to Settle Early" form (on the reverse side of the Certificate) and any other documents requested by the Purchase Contract Agent and accompanied by payment (payable to the Company in immediately available funds) in an amount (the "Early Settlement Amount") equal to the product of (i) (A) the Stated Amount times (B) the number of Purchase Contracts with respect to which the Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement, plus (ii) if such delivery is made with respect to any Purchase Contracts during the period from the close of business on any Record Date next preceding any Payment Date to the opening of business on such Payment Date, an amount equal to the Purchase Contract Payments payable on such Payment Date with respect to such Purchase Contracts. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence and subject to Section 5.11(c), no payment shall be made upon Early Settlement of any Purchase Contract on account of any Purchase Contract Payments accrued on such Purchase Contract or on account of dividends payable on the Common Stock issued upon such Early Settlement, the record date for which payment occurs prior to the Early Settlement Date. If the foregoing requirements are first satisfied with respect to Purchase Contracts underlying any Securities prior to or at 5:00 p.m. 53
(New York City time) on a Business Day, such day shall be the Early Settlement Date with respect to such Securities and if such requirements are first satisfied after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day or on a day that is not a Business Day, the Early Settlement Date with respect to such Securities shall be the next succeeding Business Day (so long as such next succeeding Business Day is not later than the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date). (b) No Early Settlement will be permitted under this Section 5.07 unless, at the time of delivery of the Election to Settle Early form or the time the Early Settlement is effected, there is an effective Registration Statement with respect to the shares of Common Stock to be issued and delivered in connection with such Early Settlement, if such a Registration Statement is required (in the view of counsel, which need not be in the form of a written opinion, for either the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent) under the Securities Act. If such a Registration Statement is so required, the Company covenants and agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to (A) have in effect a Registration Statement covering the shares of Common Stock to be delivered in respect of the Purchase Contracts being settled and (B) provide a Prospectus in connection therewith, in each case in a form that the Purchase Contract Agent may use in connection with such Early Settlement. (c) Upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Securities, the Company shall issue, and the Holder shall be entitled to receive 1.2423 shares of Common Stock on account of each Purchase Contract as to which Early Settlement is effected (the "Early Settlement Rate"). The Early Settlement Rate shall be adjusted in the same manner and at the same time as the Settlement Rate is adjusted. (d) Not later than the third Business Day after the applicable Early Settlement Date, the Company shall cause: (i) the shares of Common Stock issuable upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts to be issued and delivered, together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 5.09; and (ii) the related Preferred Securities, Notes or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, in the case of Corporate Units, or the related Treasury Securities, in the case of Treasury Units, to be released from the Pledge by the Collateral Agent and transferred, in each case, to the Purchase Contract Agent for delivery to the Holder thereof or its designee. (e) Upon Early Settlement of any Purchase Contracts, and subject to receipt of shares of Common Stock from the Company and the Preferred Securities, Notes, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, from the Securities Intermediary, as applicable, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, in accordance with the instructions provided by the Holder thereof on the Election to Settle Early form (on the reverse of the Certificate evidencing the related Securities): 54
(i) transfer to the Holder the Preferred Securities, Notes, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, forming a part of such Securities; (ii) deliver to the Holder a certificate or certificates for the full number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon such Early Settlement, together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 5.09; and (iii) if so required under the Securities Act, deliver a Prospectus for the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such Early Settlement as contemplated by Section 5.07(b). (f) In the event that Early Settlement is effected with respect to Purchase Contracts underlying less than all the Securities evidenced by a Certificate, upon such Early Settlement the Company shall execute and the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a Certificate evidencing the Securities as to which Early Settlement was not effected. SECTION 5.08 Intentionally Omitted. SECTION 5.09 No Fractional Shares. No fractional shares or scrip representing fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered upon settlement on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or upon Early Settlement of any Purchase Contracts. If Certificates evidencing more than one Purchase Contract shall be surrendered for settlement at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock which shall be delivered upon settlement shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of Purchase Contracts evidenced by the Certificates so surrendered. Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock which would otherwise be deliverable upon settlement of any Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or upon Early Settlement, the Company, through the Purchase Contract Agent, shall make a cash payment in respect of such fractional interest in an amount equal to the value of such fractional shares times the Applicable Market Value. The Company shall provide the Purchase Contract Agent from time to time with sufficient funds to permit the Purchase Contract Agent to make all cash payments required by this Section 5.09 in a timely manner. SECTION 5.10 Charges and Taxes. The Company will pay all stock transfer and similar taxes attributable to the initial issuance and delivery of the shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Purchase Contracts; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any such tax or taxes which may be payable in respect of any exchange of or substitution for a Certificate evidencing a Security or any issuance of a share of Common Stock in a name other than that of the registered Holder of a Certificate surrendered in respect of the Securities evidenced thereby, other than in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent, as custodian for such Holder, and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver such share certificates or Certificates unless or until the Person 55
or Persons requesting the transfer or issuance thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid. SECTION 5.11 Purchase Contract Payments. (a) Subject to Section 5.12, the Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Purchase Contract Payments payable in respect of each Purchase Contract to the Person in whose name a Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date next preceding such Payment Date. The Purchase Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City maintained for that purpose or, at the option of the Holder, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register. If any date on which Purchase Contract Payments are to be made is not a Business Day, then payment of the Purchase Contract Payments payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment will be made on the immediately preceding Business Day. Purchase Contract Payments payable for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. (b) Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company's obligation to pay future Purchase Contract Payments (including any accrued or deferred Purchase Contract Payments) shall cease. (c) Each Certificate delivered under this Agreement upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of (including as a result of a Collateral Substitution or the reestablishment of Corporate Units) any other Certificate shall carry the right to accrued or deferred and unpaid Purchase Contract Payments and the right to accrue Purchase Contract Payments, which rights were carried by the Purchase Contracts underlying such other Certificates. (d) In the case of any Security with respect to which Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is effected pursuant to Section 5.07 on an Early Settlement Date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on the next succeeding Payment Date, Purchase Contract Payments otherwise payable on such Payment Date shall be payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Early Settlement, and such Purchase Contract Payments shall be paid to the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing such Security is registered at the close of business on such Record Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence, in the case of any Security with respect to which Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is effected on an Early Settlement Date, Purchase Contract Payments that would otherwise be payable after the Early Settlement Date with respect to such Purchase Contract shall not be payable. (e) The obligations of the Company with respect to Purchase Contract Payments will be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the Company's obligations under any Senior Indebtedness. In the event of: 56
(i) any insolvency or bankruptcy case or proceeding, or any receivership, liquidation, reorganization or other similar case or proceeding in connection therewith, relative to the Company or to creditors of the Company, as such, or to the Company's assets; (ii) any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the Company, whether or not involving insolvency or bankruptcy; or (iii) any assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other marshalling of the Company's assets and liabilities, then and in any such event (A) the holders of Senior Indebtedness will be entitled to receive payment in full of all amounts due or to become due on or in respect of all Senior Indebtedness, or provision will be made for such payment in cash, before the Holders of Outstanding Securities are entitled to receive or retain any payment of Purchase Contract Payments, and (B) in furtherance of the foregoing, the holders of Senior Indebtedness will be entitled to receive, for application to the payment thereof, any payment or distribution of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, including any such payment or distribution which may be payable or deliverable by reason of the payment of any other Senior Indebtedness being subordinated to the payment of Purchase Contract Payments on the Outstanding Securities, which may be payable or deliverable in respect of the Outstanding Securities in any such case, proceeding, dissolution, liquidation or other winding up event. Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, the rights of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities with respect to Purchase Contract Payments will be subrogated to the rights of the holders of Senior Indebtedness to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company applicable to such Senior Indebtedness until the Purchase Contract Payments with respect to the Outstanding Securities have been paid in full. The Company shall not make any payment of Purchase Contract Payments with respect to the Outstanding Securities if any Senior Indebtedness is not paid when due and such default has not been cured or waived or ceased to exist, or if the maturity of any Senior Indebtedness has been accelerated because of a default. SECTION 5.12 Deferral of Purchase Contract Payments. (a) The Company has the right to defer payment of all or part of the Purchase Contract Payments in respect of each Purchase Contract until no later than the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, but only if the Company shall give the Holders and the Purchase Contract Agent written notice of its election to defer such payment (specifying the amount to be deferred) at least ten Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the next succeeding Payment Date or (ii) the date the Company is required to give notice of the Record Date or Payment Date with respect to payment of such Purchase Contract Payments to the NYSE or other applicable self-regulatory organization or to Holders of the Securities, but in any event not less than one Business Day prior to such Record Date. If the Company so elects to defer Purchase Contract Payments, the Company shall pay additional Purchase Contract Payments on such deferred installments of 57
Purchase Contract Payments at a rate equal to 10.25% per annum compounding quarterly, until such deferred installments are paid in full. Deferred Purchase Contract Payments shall be due on the Payment Date except to the extent that payment is deferred pursuant to this Section. Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.11(d), in the case of any Security with respect to which Early Settlement of the underlying Purchase Contract is effected on an Early Settlement Date, the Holder will have no right to receive any accrued or deferred Purchase Contract Payments. (b) In the event that the Company elects to defer the payment of Purchase Contract Payments on the Purchase Contracts until the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, each Holder will receive on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the total amount of deferred Purchase Contract Payments payable to such Holder divided by the Applicable Market Value. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be required to pay cash representing deferred Purchase Contract Payments on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date unless the Company gives the Holders and the Purchase Contract Agent notice of its election not to pay cash in satisfaction of its obligations in respect of the deferred Purchase Contract Payments no later than the Trading Day next preceding the Trading Day commencing the period in which the "Applicable Market Value" is determined for purposes of determining the Settlement Rate. In the event that the Company shall satisfy its obligations in respect of deferred Purchase Contract Payments in cash, the Company shall pay such amounts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in the manner described in Section 5.02(f). (c) In the event the Company exercises its option to defer the payment of Purchase Contract Payments, then, until all deferred Purchase Contract Payments have been paid, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to (a) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on any of the Company's capital stock, or (b) redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of the Company's capital stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and any of its subsidiaries may (1) purchase or acquire its capital stock in connection with the satisfaction by it of its obligations under any employee or director compensation or benefit plans or under the Company's direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plans, or pursuant to any contract or security outstanding on the first day of any such event requiring it to purchase its capital stock; (2) reclassify its capital stock or exchange or convert one class or series of its capital stock for another class or series of its capital stock; (3) purchase fractional interests in shares of its capital stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the security being converted or exchanged; and (4) redeem or repurchase any rights pursuant to a rights agreement. ARTICLE 6 Remedies SECTION 6.01 Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Purchase Contract Payments and to Purchase Shares of Common Stock. Each Holder of a Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, (i) subject to the right of the Company to defer such payments in accordance with Section 5.12, to receive each Purchase Contract Payment with respect to the Purchase Contract comprising part 58
of such Security on the respective Payment Date for such Security and (ii) except upon and following a Termination Event, to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to such Purchase Contract and, in each such case, to institute suit for the enforcement of any such right to receive Purchase Contract Payments and the right to purchase shares of Common Stock, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder. SECTION 6.02 Restoration of Rights and Remedies. If any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Agreement and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company and such Holder shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of such Holder shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted. SECTION 6.03 Rights and Remedies Cumulative. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates in the last paragraph of Section 3.10, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy. SECTION 6.04 Delay or Omission Not Waiver. No delay or omission of any Holder to exercise any right or remedy upon a default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such right. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by such Holders. SECTION 6.05 Undertaking for Costs. All parties to this Agreement agree, and each Holder of a Security, by its acceptance of such Security shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Agreement, or in any suit against the Purchase Contract Agent for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Purchase Contract Agent, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; provided that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Purchase Contract Agent, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% of the Outstanding Securities, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of distributions on any Preferred Securities or interest on any Notes or Purchase Contract Payments 59
on or after the respective Payment Date therefor in respect of any Security held by such Holder, or for enforcement of the right to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Purchase Contracts constituting part of any Security held by such Holder. SECTION 6.06 Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Agreement; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Purchase Contract Agent or the Holders, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE 7 The Purchase Contract Agent SECTION 7.01 Certain Duties and Responsibilities. (a) The Purchase Contract Agent: (1) undertakes to perform, with respect to the Securities, such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement against the Purchase Contract Agent; and (2) in the absence of bad faith, willful misconduct or negligence on its part, may, with respect to the Securities, conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Purchase Contract Agent and conforming to the requirements of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement, as applicable, but in the case of any certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Purchase Contract Agent shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement, as applicable (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of the mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). (b) No provision of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Purchase Contract Agent from liability for its own grossly negligent action, its own grossly negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (1) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsection (a) of this Section; 60
(2) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Purchase Contract Agent was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; (3) no provision of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement shall require the Purchase Contract Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if indemnity satisfactory to the Purchase Contract Agent is not provided to it; and (4) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities. (c) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Purchase Contract Agent shall be subject to the provisions of this Section. (d) The Purchase Contract Agent is authorized to execute and deliver the Pledge Agreement in its capacity as Purchase Contract Agent. SECTION 7.02 Notice of Default. Within 30 days after the occurrence of any default by the Company hereunder of which a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent has actual knowledge, the Purchase Contract Agent shall transmit by mail to the Company and the Holders of Securities, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder, unless such default shall have been cured or waived. SECTION 7.03 Certain Rights of Purchase Contract Agent. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01: (1) the Purchase Contract Agent may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (2) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officer's Certificate, Issuer Order or Issuer Request, and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution; (3) whenever in the administration of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement the Purchase Contract Agent shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Purchase Contract Agent (unless other 61
evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officer's Certificate of the Company; (4) the Purchase Contract Agent may consult with counsel of its selection appointed with due care by it hereunder and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; (5) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Purchase Contract Agent, in its discretion, and at the expense of the Company, may make reasonable further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters related to the execution, delivery and performance of the Purchase Contracts as it may see fit, and, if the Purchase Contract Agent shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be given a reasonable opportunity to examine the relevant books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation; (6) the Purchase Contract Agent may execute any of the powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys or an Affiliate and the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney or an Affiliate appointed with due care by it hereunder; (7) the Purchase Contract Agent shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Agreement at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Agreement, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Purchase Contract Agent security or indemnity satisfactory to the Purchase Contract Agent against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (8) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Agreement; (9) the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to have notice of any default hereunder unless a Responsible Officer of the Purchase Contract Agent has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office of the Purchase Contract Agent, and such notice references the Securities and this Agreement; (10) the Purchase Contract Agent may request that the Company deliver an Officer's Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Agreement, which Officer's Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officer's Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and 62
(11) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Purchase Contract Agent, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Purchase Contract Agent and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder. SECTION 7.04 Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. The recitals contained herein and in the Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Purchase Contract Agent assumes no responsibility for their accuracy. The Purchase Contract Agent makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of either this Agreement or of the Securities, or of the Pledge Agreement or the Pledge. The Purchase Contract Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of the proceeds in respect of the Purchase Contracts. SECTION 7.05 May Hold Securities. Any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, or the Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates, in their individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company, the Collateral Agent or any other Person with the same rights it would have if it were not Security Registrar or such other agent, or the Purchase Contract Agent. The Company may become the owner or pledgee of Securities. SECTION 7.06 Money Held in Custody. Money held by the Purchase Contract Agent in custody hereunder need not be segregated from the other funds except to the extent required by law or provided herein. The Purchase Contract Agent shall be under no obligation to invest or pay interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise provided hereunder or agreed to in writing with the Company. SECTION 7.07 Compensation and Reimbursement. The Company agrees: (1) to pay to the Purchase Contract Agent compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder and under the Pledge Agreement as the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent shall from time to time agree in writing; (2) except as otherwise expressly provided for herein, to reimburse the Purchase Contract Agent upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with any provision of this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith; and (3) to indemnify the Purchase Contract Agent and any predecessor Purchase Contract Agent for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred 63
without gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, a Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The provisions of this Section shall survive the resignation and removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and the termination of this Agreement. SECTION 7.08 Corporate Purchase Contract Agent Required; Eligibility. There shall at all times be a Purchase Contract Agent hereunder which shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having (or being a member of a bank holding company having) a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority and having a corporate trust office in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City, if there be such a corporation in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City, qualified and eligible under this Article and willing to act on reasonable terms. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Purchase Contract Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. SECTION 7.09 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. (a) No resignation or removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and no appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 7.10. (b) The Purchase Contract Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Company 60 days prior to the effective date of such resignation. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Purchase Contract Agent required by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Purchase Contract Agent may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent. (c) The Purchase Contract Agent may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of a majority in number of the Outstanding Securities delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Purchase Contract Agent required by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Purchase Contract Agent may 64
petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent. (d) If at any time: (1) the Purchase Contract Agent fails to comply with Section 310(b) of the TIA, as if the Purchase Contract Agent were an indenture trustee under an indenture qualified under the TIA, after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months; (2) the Purchase Contract Agent shall cease to be eligible under Section 7.08 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder; or (3) the Purchase Contract Agent shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Purchase Contract Agent or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Purchase Contract Agent or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Purchase Contract Agent, or (ii) any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent. (e) If the Purchase Contract Agent shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Purchase Contract Agent for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Purchase Contract Agent and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 7.10. If no successor Purchase Contract Agent shall have been so appointed by the Company and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 7.10, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, on behalf of itself and all others similarly situated, or the Purchase Contract Agent may petition at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent. (f) The Company shall give, or shall cause such successor Purchase Contract Agent to give, notice of each resignation and each removal of the Purchase Contract Agent and each appointment of a successor Purchase Contract Agent by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the applicable Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Purchase Contract Agent and the address of its Corporate Trust Office. SECTION 7.10 Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Purchase Contract Agent, every such successor Purchase Contract Agent so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and 65
deliver to the Company and to the retiring Purchase Contract Agent an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Purchase Contract Agent shall become effective and such successor Purchase Contract Agent, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, agencies and duties of the retiring Purchase Contract Agent; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Purchase Contract Agent, such retiring Purchase Contract Agent shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Purchase Contract Agent all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Purchase Contract Agent and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Purchase Contract Agent all property and money held by such retiring Purchase Contract Agent hereunder. (b) Upon request of any such successor Purchase Contract Agent, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Purchase Contract Agent all such rights, powers and agencies referred to in paragraph 7.10(a) of this Section. (c) No successor Purchase Contract Agent shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Purchase Contract Agent shall be qualified and eligible under this Article. SECTION 7.11 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any corporation into which the Purchase Contract Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Purchase Contract Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Purchase Contract Agent, shall be the successor of the Purchase Contract Agent hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Certificates shall have been authenticated and executed on behalf of the Holders, but not delivered, by the Purchase Contract Agent then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such Purchase Contract Agent may adopt such authentication and execution and deliver the Certificates so authenticated and executed with the same effect as if such successor Purchase Contract Agent had itself authenticated and executed such Securities. SECTION 7.12 Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders. (a) The Purchase Contract Agent shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders received by the Purchase Contract Agent in its capacity as Security Registrar. (b) If three or more Holders (herein referred to as "Applicants") apply in writing to the Purchase Contract Agent, and furnish to the Purchase Contract Agent reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Agreement or under the Securities and is 66
accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Purchase Contract Agent shall mail to all the Holders copies of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Purchase Contract Agent of the materials to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of such mailing. SECTION 7.13 No Obligations of Purchase Contract Agent. Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent assumes no obligations and shall not be subject to any liability under this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or any Purchase Contract in respect of the obligations of the Holder of any Security thereunder. The Company agrees, and each Holder of a Certificate, by his or her acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have agreed, that the Purchase Contract Agent's execution of the Certificates on behalf of the Holders shall be solely as agent and attorney-in-fact for the Holders, and that the Purchase Contract Agent shall have no obligation to perform such Purchase Contracts on behalf of the Holders (including but not limited to the obligation to pay the Purchase Price for the Common Stock on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (which obligation is solely an obligation of the Holders)), but the Purchase Contract Agent shall have certain administrative duties as expressly stated in Article Five hereof. Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall the Purchase Contract Agent or its officers, employees or agents be liable under this Agreement to any third party for indirect, special, punitive, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever, including lost profits, whether or not the likelihood of such loss or damage was known to the Purchase Contract Agent, incurred without any act or deed that is found to be attributable to gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Purchase Contract Agent. SECTION 7.14 Tax Compliance. (a) The Company and the Purchase Contract Agent will comply with all applicable certification, information reporting and withholding (including "backup" withholding) requirements imposed by applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative practice with respect to (i) any payments made with respect to the Securities or (ii) the issuance, delivery, holding, transfer, redemption or exercise of rights under the Securities. Such compliance shall include, without limitation, the preparation and timely filing of required returns and the timely payment of all amounts required to be withheld to the appropriate taxing authority or its designated agent. (b) The Purchase Contract Agent shall comply in accordance with the terms hereof with any written direction received from the Company with respect to the execution or certification of any required documentation and the application of such requirements to particular payments or Holders or in other particular circumstances, and may for purposes of this Agreement conclusively rely on any such direction in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.01(a)(2) hereof. (c) The Purchase Contract Agent shall maintain all appropriate records documenting compliance with such requirements, and shall make such records available, on written request, to 67
the Company or its authorized representative within a reasonable period of time after receipt of such request. ARTICLE 8 Supplemental Agreements SECTION 8.01 Supplemental Agreements Without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Purchase Contract Agent, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more agreements supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, to: (1) evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Certificates; (2) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Purchase Contract Agent; (3) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; (4) make provision with respect to the rights of Holders pursuant to the requirements of Section 5.04(b); or (5) cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provisions herein which may be inconsistent with any other provisions herein, or make any other provisions with respect to such matters or questions arising under this Agreement, provided that such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders. SECTION 8.02 Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Holders. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding Securities voting together as one class, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Purchase Contract Agent may enter into an agreement or agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of modifying in any manner the terms of the Purchase Contracts, or the provisions of this Agreement or the rights of the Holders in respect of the Securities; provided, however, that, except as contemplated herein, no such supplemental agreement shall, without the unanimous consent of the Holders of each outstanding Purchase Contract affected thereby, (1) change any Payment Date; (2) change the amount or the type of Collateral required to be Pledged to secure a Holder's obligations under the Purchase Contract, impair the right of the Holder of any 68
Purchase Contract to receive distributions on the related Collateral or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights in or to such Collateral or adversely alter the rights in or to such Collateral; (3) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any Purchase Contract, any Purchase Contract Payment or deferred Purchase Contract Payment; (4) reduce the number of shares of Common Stock or the amount of any other property to be purchased pursuant to any Purchase Contract, increase the price to purchase shares of Common Stock or the amount of any other property upon settlement of any Purchase Contract or change the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or the right to Early Settlement or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights under the Purchase Contract; (5) reduce the percentage of the outstanding Purchase Contracts the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental agreement; or (6) reduce any Purchase Contract Payments or deferred Purchase Contract Payments or change any place where, or the coin or currency in which, any Purchase Contract Payment or deferred Purchase Contract Payment is payable; provided that if any amendment or proposal referred to above would adversely affect only the Corporate Units or the Treasury Units, then only the affected class of Holders as of the record date for the Holders entitled to vote thereon will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal, and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the consent of Holders of not less than a majority of such class; and provided, further, that the unanimous consent of the Holders of each outstanding Purchase Contract of such class affected thereby shall be required to approve any amendment or proposal specified in clauses (1) through (6) above. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental agreement, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. SECTION 8.03 Execution of Supplemental Agreements. In executing, or accepting the additional agencies created by, any supplemental agreement permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the agencies created by this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent shall be provided, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental agreement is authorized or permitted by this Agreement and that any and all conditions precedent to the execution and delivery of such supplemental agreement have been satisfied. The Purchase Contract Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental agreement which affects the Purchase Contract Agent's own rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement or otherwise. 69
SECTION 8.04 Effect of Supplemental Agreements. Upon the execution of any supplemental agreement under this Article, this Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental agreement shall form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder of Certificates theretofore or thereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder, shall be bound thereby. SECTION 8.05 Reference to Supplemental Agreements. Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered after the execution of any supplemental agreement pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Purchase Contract Agent, bear a notation in form approved by the Purchase Contract Agent as to any matter provided for in such supplemental agreement. If the Company shall so determine, new Certificates so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company, to any such supplemental agreement may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Purchase Contract Agent in exchange for outstanding Certificates. ARTICLE 9 Consolidation, Merger, Conveyance, Transfer or Lease SECTION 9.01 Covenant Not to Consolidate, Merge, Convey, Transfer or Lease Property Except under Certain Conditions. The Company covenants that it will not merge or consolidate with or into any other entity or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless: (i) either the Company shall be the continuing corporation, or the successor (if other than the Company) shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or a State thereof or the District of Columbia and such corporation shall expressly assume all the obligations of the Company under the Purchase Contracts, the Notes, the Guarantee, this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Indenture (including any supplement thereto) and the Remarketing Agreement by one or more supplemental agreements in form reasonably satisfactory to the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent, executed and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent by such corporation; and (ii) the Company or such successor corporation, as the case may be, shall not, immediately after such merger, consolidation, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance be in default in the performance of any covenant or condition under the Purchase Contracts, the Notes, the Guarantee, this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Indenture (including any supplement thereto) and the Remarketing Agreement. 70
SECTION 9.02 Rights and Duties of Successor Corporation. In case of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance and upon any such assumption by a successor corporation in accordance with Section 9.01, such successor corporation shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company with the same effect as if it had been named herein as the Company. Such successor corporation thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue either in its own name or in the name of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, any or all of the Certificates evidencing Securities issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent; and, upon the order of such successor corporation, instead of the Company, and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Agreement prescribed, the Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate and execute on behalf of the Holders and deliver any Certificates which previously shall have been signed and delivered by the officers of the Company to the Purchase Contract Agent for authentication and execution, and any Certificate evidencing Securities which such successor corporation thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Purchase Contract Agent for that purpose. All the Certificates issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Agreement as the Certificates theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Agreement as though all of such Certificates had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. In case of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance such change in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Certificates evidencing Securities thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate. SECTION 9.03 Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel Given to Purchase Contract Agent. The Purchase Contract Agent, subject to Sections 7.01 and 7.03, shall receive an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance, and any such assumption, complies with the provisions of this Article and that all conditions precedent to the consummation of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance have been met. ARTICLE 10 Covenants SECTION 10.01 Performance under Purchase Contracts. The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Securities that it will duly and punctually perform its obligations under the Purchase Contracts in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contracts and this Agreement. 71
SECTION 10.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City an office or agency where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for acquisition of shares of Common Stock upon settlement of the Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date or Early Settlement and for transfer of Collateral upon occurrence of a Termination Event, where Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, for a Collateral Substitution or reestablishment of Corporate Units and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Agreement may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. The Company initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Purchase Contract Agent as such office of the Company. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Purchase Contract Agent with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office, and the Company hereby appoints the Purchase Contract Agent as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby designates as the place of payment for the Securities the Corporate Trust Office and appoints the Purchase Contract Agent at its Corporate Trust Office as paying agent in such city. SECTION 10.03 Company to Reserve Common Stock. The Company shall at all times prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock the full number of shares of Common Stock issuable against tender of payment in respect of all Purchase Contracts constituting a part of the Securities evidenced by Outstanding Certificates. SECTION 10.04 Covenants as to Common Stock. The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued against tender of payment in respect of any Purchase Contract constituting a part of the Outstanding Securities will, upon issuance, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. SECTION 10.05 Statements of Officers of the Company as to Default. The Company will deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (which as of the date hereof is December 31) ending after the date hereof, an Officer's Certificate (one of the signers of which shall be the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company), stating 72
whether or not to the knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions hereof, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. SECTION 10.06 ERISA. Each Holder from time to time of the Securities that is a Plan hereby represents that its acquisition of the Corporate Units and the holding of the same satisfies the applicable fiduciary requirements of ERISA and that it is entitled to exemption relief from the prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA and the Code in accordance with one or more prohibited transaction exemptions or otherwise will not result in a nonexempt prohibited transaction. SECTION 10.07 Tax Treatment. The Company covenants and agrees to treat each Holder as the owner, for United States federal income tax purposes, of the applicable interest in the Collateral Account, including the Notes and Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio or the Treasury Securities. [SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE] 73
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED By: _____________________________________ Name: Title: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Purchase Contract Agent By: _____________________________________ Name: Title: 74
EXHIBIT A FACE OF CORPORATE UNITS CERTIFICATE [For inclusion in Global Certificates only - THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.] No. ____ CUSIP No. Number of Corporate Units:______________ PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED PSEG FUNDING TRUST I CORPORATE UNITS This Corporate Units Certificate certifies that ___________________ is the registered Holder of the number of Corporate Units set forth above [For inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of Corporate Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Certificate attached hereto]. Each Corporate Unit consists of (i) either (a) the beneficial ownership by the Holder of one Preferred Security (the "Preferred Security") of PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), having a liquidation amount of $50, subject to the Pledge of such Preferred Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, or (b) upon the occurrence of a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption Date prior to the Initial Reset Date or, in the event of a failed Initial Remarketing, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as A-1
specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (ii) the rights and obligations of the Holder under one Purchase Contract with Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"). All capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined on the reverse hereof) have the meaning set forth therein. Pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, constituting part of each Corporate Unit evidenced hereby has been pledged to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligations of the Holder under the Purchase Contract comprising part of such Corporate Unit. The Pledge Agreement provides that all payments of the liquidation amount with respect to any of the Pledged Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, or cash distributions on any Pledged Preferred Securities (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (B) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, constituting part of the Corporate Units received by the Collateral Agent shall be paid by wire transfer in same day funds (i) in the case of (A) cash distributions with respect to Pledged Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (B) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, and (B) any payments of the liquidation amount with respect to any Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, that have been released from the Pledge pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, to the Purchase Contract Agent to the account designated by the Purchase Contract Agent, no later than 12:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day such payment is received by the Collateral Agent (provided that in the event such payment is received by the Collateral Agent on a day that is not a Business Day or after 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on a Business Day, then such payment shall be made no later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, on the next succeeding Business Day) and (ii) in the case of payments of the liquidation amount with respect to any of the Pledged Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (as described herein) in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, in full satisfaction of the respective obligations of the Holders of the Corporate Units of which such Pledged Preferred Securities or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, are a part under the Purchase Contracts forming a part of such Corporate Units. Distributions on any Preferred Security or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (B) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, forming part of a Corporate Unit evidenced hereby, which are payable quarterly in arrears on February 16, May 16, August 16, and November 16 of each year (each, a "Payment Date"), commencing November 16, 2002, and, in the event that the Initial Reset Date is not otherwise such a payment date, the Initial Reset Date shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent from the Collateral Agent, be paid to the Person in whose name this Corporate A-2
Units Certificate (or a Predecessor Corporate Units Certificate) is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on November 16, 2005 (the "Purchase Contract Settlement Date"), at a price equal to $50 (the "Stated Amount"), a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock, without par value ("Common Stock"), of the Company, equal to the Settlement Rate, unless on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date there shall have occurred a Termination Event or an Early Settlement with respect to the Corporate Units of which such Purchase Contract is a part, all as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement and more fully described on the reverse hereof. The purchase price (the "Purchase Price") for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be paid on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date by application of payment received in respect of the liquidation amount with respect to any Pledged Preferred Securities pursuant to the Remarketing or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, pledged to secure the obligations under such Purchase Contract of the Holder of the Corporate Unit of which such Purchase Contract is a part. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Corporate Unit evidenced hereby, an amount (the "Purchase Contract Payments") equal to 4.00% per year of the Stated Amount. Such Purchase Contract Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Corporate Units Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. The Company may, at its option, defer such Purchase Contract Payments as and to the extent set forth in the Purchase Contract Agreement. Distributions on the Preferred Securities and the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (B) of the definition of such term) and the Purchase Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City or, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address appears on the Security Register. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Corporate Units Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Pledge Agreement or the Purchase Contract Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. A-3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED By: ___________________________________ Name: Title: HOLDER SPECIFIED ABOVE (as to obligations of such Holder under the Purchase Contracts) By: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not individually but solely as Attorney-in-Fact of such Holder By: ___________________________________ Name: Title: DATED: September 10, 2002 A-4
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION OF PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT This is one of the Corporate Units Certificates referred to in the within mentioned Purchase Contract Agreement. By: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Purchase Contract Agent By: ______________________________________ Authorized Signatory Dated: September 10, 2002 A-5
(REVERSE OF CORPORATE UNITS CERTIFICATE) Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the "Purchase Contract Agreement"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent (including its successors hereunder, the "Purchase Contract Agent"), to which Purchase Contract Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, and the Holders and of the terms upon which the Corporate Units Certificates are, and are to be, executed and delivered. Unless an Early Settlement has occurred, each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date at a price equal to the Stated Amount (the "Purchase Price"), a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Rate, unless, prior to or on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, there shall have occurred a Termination Event with respect to the Security of which such Purchase Contract is a part. The "Settlement Rate" is equal to: (1) if the Applicable Market Value (as defined below) is greater than or equal to $40.2480 (the "Threshold Appreciation Price"), 1.2423 shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract; (2) if the Applicable Market Value is less than the Threshold Appreciation Price but greater than $33.54 (the "Reference Price"), the number of shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract having a value equal to the Stated Amount divided by the Applicable Market Value; and (3) if the Applicable Market Value is less than or equal to the Reference Price, 1.4908 shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract, in each case subject to adjustment as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share). No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.09 of the Purchase Contract Agreement. Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, which is settled either through Early Settlement or Cash Settlement, shall obligate the Holder of the related Corporate Unit to purchase at the Purchase Price, and the Company to sell, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Early Settlement Rate or Settlement Rate, as applicable. The "Applicable Market Value" means the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock on each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. A-6
The "Closing Price" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means: (1) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on such date; (2) if Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any such date, the closing sale price per share as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which Common Stock is so listed; (3) if Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, the closing sale price per share as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market; (4) if Common Stock is not so reported, the last quoted bid price for Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization; or (5) if such bid price is not available, the market value of Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firms retained for this purpose by the Company. A "Trading Day" means a day on which Common Stock (1) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the close of business and (2) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of Common Stock. In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate may pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby by effecting a Cash Settlement or an Early Settlement or from the proceeds of the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio or a Remarketing of the related Pledged Preferred Securities. Unless a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred, a Holder of Corporate Units who does not (1) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, notify the Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to effect a Cash Settlement, or (2) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date make an effective Early Settlement, shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be delivered under the related Purchase Contract from the proceeds of the sale of the related Pledged Preferred Securities held by the Collateral Agent. Unless a Tax Event Redemption or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred, such sale will be made by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement on the third Business Day prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. If a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred, a Holder of Corporate Units who does not notify the Purchase Contract Agent, on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second A-7
Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, of its intention to effect a Cash Settlement or an Early Settlement, shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be delivered under the related Purchase Contract from the proceeds at maturity of the Applicable Ownership Interests (as defined in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio. If, as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement, (i) upon the occurrence of a Failed Secondary Remarketing or (ii) upon the failure of a Holder to deliver the Purchase Price in cash on or prior to 11:00 a.m. the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date after such Holder has notified the Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to effect a Cash Settlement, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, exercises its rights as a secured creditor with respect to the Pledged Preferred Securities related to this Corporate Units Certificate, any accrued and unpaid distributions on such Pledged Preferred Securities will become payable by the Company to the holder of this Corporate Units Certificate in the manner provided for in the Purchase Contract Agreement. The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner herein set forth. By acquiring a Corporate Unit, a Holder of Corporate Units agrees to treat the Preferred Security or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, constituting part of the Corporate Units as owned by such Holder for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes. In addition, by acquiring a Corporate Unit, a Holder of Corporate Units agrees to treat the Notes as indebtedness for all United States federal income tax purposes. Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holder thereunder shall terminate if a Termination Event shall occur. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent and to the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Pledged Preferred Security or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio forming a part of each Corporate Unit from the Pledge. A Corporate Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Preferred Security or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio forming a part of such Corporate Unit in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. Under the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent will be entitled to exercise the voting and any other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Preferred Securities. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Preferred Securities are entitled to vote or upon the solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of Preferred Securities, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the Corporate Unit Holders a notice: A-8
(1) containing such information as is contained in the notice or solicitation; (2) stating that each Corporate Unit Holder on the record date set by the Purchase Contract Agent therefor (which, to the extent possible, shall be the same date as the record date for determining the holders of Preferred Securities entitled to vote) shall be entitled to instruct the Purchase Contract Agent as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the Preferred Securities constituting a part of such Holder's Corporate Units; and (3) stating the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the Corporate Unit Holders on such record date, the Purchase Contract Agent shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum number of Preferred Securities as to which any particular voting instructions are received. In the absence of specific instructions from the Holder of a Corporate Unit, the Purchase Contract Agent shall abstain from voting the Preferred Security evidenced by such Corporate Unit. Upon the dissolution and liquidation of the Trust, an aggregate principal amount of the Notes constituting the assets of the Trust and underlying the Preferred Securities equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities shall be delivered to the Collateral Agent in exchange for the Pledged Preferred Securities. Thereafter, the Notes shall be held by the Securities Intermediary to secure the obligations of each Holder of Corporate Units to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Purchase Contracts constituting a part of such Corporate Units and all references herein to Pledged Preferred Securities shall, in order to effect the foregoing, refer to Pledged Notes. Following the dissolution and liquidation of the Trust, the Holders and the Collateral Agent shall have such security interests, rights and obligations with respect to the Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, as the Holders and the Collateral Agent had in respect of the Pledged Preferred Securities, any reference herein to the Preferred Securities shall be deemed to be a reference to the Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, and any reference herein to the liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities shall be deemed to be a reference to the principal amount of the Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be. Upon the occurrence of a Tax Event Redemption Date prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, an amount equal to the Redemption Amount plus any accumulated and unpaid distributions payable on the Tax Event Redemption Date with respect to the Applicable Principal Amount shall be deposited in the Collateral Account in exchange for the Pledged Preferred Securities. Thereafter, pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Collateral Agent shall cause the Securities Intermediary to apply an amount equal to the Redemption Amount of such funds to purchase on behalf of the Holders of Corporate Units, the Treasury Portfolio and promptly (a) transfer the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the A-9
definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio to the Collateral Account to secure the obligations of each Holder of Corporate Units to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Purchase Contracts constituting a part of such Corporate Units, (b) transfer the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (B) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holders of such Corporate Units and (C) remit the remaining portion of such funds to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of such Corporate Units. Upon the occurrence of a Successful Initial Remarketing, pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, the Remarketing Agent will apply an amount equal to the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price to purchase on behalf of the Holders of Corporate Units, the Treasury Portfolio, and, after deducting the Remarketing Fee to the extent permitted under the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, promptly remit the remaining portion of such proceeds of the Successful Initial Remarketing to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of such Corporate Units. Following the Initial Reset Date (in the event of a Successful Initial Remarketing) or the occurrence of a Tax Event Redemption Date prior to the Initial Reset Date or, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Holders of Corporate Units and the Collateral Agent shall have such security interest rights and obligations with respect to the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio as the Holder of Corporate Units and the Collateral Agent had in respect of the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, subject to the Pledge thereof as provided in the Pledge Agreement and any reference herein to the Preferred Securities shall be deemed to be a reference to such Treasury Portfolio. The Corporate Units Certificates are issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Corporate Unit and any integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Corporate Units Certificate will be registered and Corporate Units Certificates may be exchanged as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents permitted by the Purchase Contract Agreement. No service charge shall be required for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. A Holder who elects to substitute a Treasury Security for Preferred Securities, thereby creating Treasury Units, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses payable in connection therewith. Except as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement, for so long as the Purchase Contract underlying a Corporate Unit remains in effect, such Corporate Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Corporate Unit in respect of the Preferred Securities and Purchase Contract constituting such Corporate Unit may be transferred and exchanged only as a Corporate Unit. A Holder of Corporate Units may substitute for the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, securing such Holder's obligations under the related Purchase Contracts Treasury Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate A-10
liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. From and after such Collateral Substitution, each Security for which such Pledged Treasury Securities secures the Holder's obligation under the Purchase Contract shall be referred to as a "Treasury Unit". A Holder may make such Collateral Substitution only in integral multiples of 20 Corporate Units for 20 Treasury Units. If the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities as a component of the Corporate Units as a result of a Tax Event Redemption or a Successful Initial Remarketing, a Corporate Unit Holder may make such Collateral Substitution only in such integral multiples of Corporate Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be released in whole multiples. A Holder of Treasury Units may recreate Corporate Units by delivering to the Securities Intermediary Preferred Securities with an aggregate liquidation amount, Notes with an aggregate principal amount or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, equal to the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Pledged Treasury Securities in exchange for the release of such Pledged Treasury Securities in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. A Holder may recreate Corporate Units only in integral multiples of 20 Treasury Units for 20 Corporate Units. If the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities as a component of the Corporate Units as a result of a Tax Event Redemption or a Successful Initial Remarketing, a Treasury Unit Holder may recreate Corporate Units only in such integral multiples of Treasury Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be purchased in whole multiples. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Purchase Contract Payments payable in respect of each Purchase Contract to the Person in whose name the Corporate Units Certificate evidencing such Purchase Contract is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Purchase Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City or, at the option of the Holder, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such address as it appears on the Security Register. The Company has the right to defer payment of all or part of the Purchase Contract Payments in respect of each Purchase Contract until no later than the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. If the Company so elects to defer Purchase Contract Payments, the Company shall pay additional Purchase Contract Payments on such deferred installments of Purchase Contract Payments at a rate equal to 10.25% compounded quarterly, until such deferred installments are paid. In the event that the Company elects to defer the payment of Purchase Contract Payments on the Purchase Contracts until the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, each Holder will receive on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the total amount of deferred Purchase Contract Payments payable to such Holder divided by the Applicable Market Value, provided that the Company shall be required to pay A-11
cash representing deferred Purchase Contract Payments unless the Company gives the Holders and the Purchase Contract Agent notice of its election not to pay cash within the time period prescribed in the Purchase Contract Agreement. The Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Purchase Contract Payments, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Purchase Contract Agent or the Company, if, on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Termination Event shall have occurred. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, from the Pledge in accordance with the provisions of the Pledge Agreement. Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Corporate Units may effect Early Settlement of the Purchase Contract underlying such Corporate Units pursuant to the terms of Section 5.04(b)(2) of the Purchase Contract Agreement. In addition, a Holder of Corporate Units may effect Early Settlement of the Purchase Contract underlying such Corporate Units pursuant to the terms of Section 5.07 of the Purchase Contract Agreement. Upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Corporate Units, the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio underlying such Corporate Units, as the case may be, shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge Agreement. Upon registration of transfer of this Corporate Units Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement), under the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Purchase Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under the Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Corporate Units Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by its acceptance hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph. The Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Purchase Contracts forming part of the Corporate Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e., affirmance) of the Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the event that the Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code, agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to perform his obligations under such Purchase Contracts, consents to the provisions of the Purchase Contract Agreement, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, and consents to the Pledge of the Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as A-12
specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, underlying this Corporate Units Certificate pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. The Holder further covenants and agrees that, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, payments in respect to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments. Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Purchase Contract Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority of the Purchase Contracts. The Purchase Contracts shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles thereof. The Company, the Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in whose name this Corporate Units Certificate is registered as the owner of the Corporate Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of receiving payments of distributions payable quarterly on the Preferred Securities, receiving payments of Purchase Contract Payments, performance of the Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Purchase Contracts shall not, prior to the settlement thereof, entitle the Holder to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock. A copy of the Purchase Contract Agreement is available for inspection at the offices of the Purchase Contract Agent. A-13
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM: as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT: _________________ Custodian ________________ (cust) (minor) Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of __________ TENANT: as tenants by the entireties JT TEN: as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto _______________________________________________________________________________ (Please insert Social Security or Taxpayer I.D. or other Identifying Number of Assignee) _______________________________________________________________________________ (Please Print or Type Name and Address Including Postal Zip Code of Assignee) the within Corporate Units Certificates and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney __________________, to transfer said Corporate Units Certificates on the books of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, and PSEG Funding Trust I with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: _____________________________ Signature_____________________________ NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Corporate Units Certificates in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever. Signature Guarantee: _____________________________________________ A-14
SETTLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date of the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Corporate Units evidenced by this Corporate Units Certificate be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: __________ Signature Signature Guarantee: ________________ (if assigned to another person) If shares are to be registered in the REGISTERED HOLDER name of and delivered to a Person other than the Holder, please (i) print such Please print name and address of Person's name and address and (ii) Registered Holder: provide a guarantee of your signature: _____________________________________ _________________________________________ Name Name _____________________________________ _________________________________________ Address Address _____________________________________ _________________________________________ _____________________________________ _________________________________________ _____________________________________ _________________________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ A-15
ELECTION TO SETTLE EARLY The undersigned Holder of this Corporate Units Certificate hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect Early Settlement [following a Cash Merger] in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Corporate Units evidenced by this Corporate Units Certificate specified below. The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon such Early Settlement be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share and any Corporate Units Certificate representing any Corporate Units evidenced hereby as to which Early Settlement of the related Purchase Contracts is not effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Preferred Securities, Pledged Notes or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, deliverable upon such Early Settlement will be transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set forth below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: ______________________________ ________________________________________ Signature Signature Guarantee: ___________________________________ A-16
Number of Securities evidenced hereby as to which Early Settlement of the related Purchase Contracts is being elected: If shares of Common Stock or Corporate Units Certificates are to be registered in the name of and delivered to and Pledged Preferred Securities, Pledged Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, are to be transferred to a Person other than the Holder, please print such Person's name and address: Please print name and address of Registered Holder: REGISTERED HOLDER Please print name and address of Registered Holder: ___________________________________ ________________________________________ Name Name ___________________________________ ________________________________________ Address Address ___________________________________ ________________________________________ ___________________________________ ________________________________________ ___________________________________ ________________________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ________________________________ A-17
Transfer Instructions for Pledged Preferred Securities or the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, transferable upon Early Settlement or a Termination Event: ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ A-18
[TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL CERTIFICATES] SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL CERTIFICATE The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made: A-19
EXHIBIT B FACE OF TREASURY UNITS CERTIFICATE [For inclusion in Global Certificates only THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.] No. _____________________________ CUSIP No. Number of Treasury Units:___________ PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED PSEG FUNDING TRUST I TREASURY UNITS This Treasury Units Certificate certifies that _________________ is the registered Holder of the number of Treasury Units set forth above [For inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of Corporate Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases in Global Certificate attached hereto]. Each Treasury Unit consists of (i) a 1/20 undivided beneficial ownership interest of a Treasury Security having a principal amount at maturity equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such Treasury Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (ii) the rights and obligations of the Holder under one Purchase Contract with Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"). All capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined on the reverse hereof) have the meaning set forth therein. B-1
Pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Treasury Securities constituting part of each Treasury Unit evidenced hereby have been pledged to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligations of the Holder under the Purchase Contract comprising part of such Treasury Unit. Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company, to sell, on November 16, 2005 (the "Purchase Contract Settlement Date"), at a price equal to $50 (the "Stated Amount"), a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock, without par value ("Common Stock"), of the Company, equal to the Settlement Rate, unless prior to or on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date there shall have occurred a Termination Event or an Early Settlement with respect to the Treasury Unit of which such Purchase Contract is a part, all as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement and more fully described on the reverse hereof. The purchase price (the "Purchase Price") for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be paid on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date by application of the proceeds from the Treasury Securities at maturity pledged to secure the obligations of the Holder under such Purchase Contract of the Treasury Unit of which such Purchase Contract is a part. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Purchase Contract forming part of a Treasury Unit evidenced hereby, an amount (the "Purchase Contract Payments") equal to 4.00% per year of the Stated Amount. Such Purchase Contract Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Treasury Units Certificate is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. The Company may, at its option, defer such Purchase Contract Payments as and to the extent set forth in the Purchase Contract Agreement. The Purchase Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City or, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address appears on the Security Register. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Treasury Units Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Pledge Agreement or the Purchase Contract Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. B-2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED By: _______________________________ Name: Title: HOLDER SPECIFIED ABOVE (as to obligations of such Holder under the Purchase Contracts) By: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not individually but solely as Attorney-in-Fact of such Holder By: _______________________________ Name: Title: Dated: September 10, 2002 B-3
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION OF PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT This is one of the Treasury Units referred to in the within-mentioned Purchase Contract Agreement. By: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Purchase Contract Agent By: ________________________________ Authorized Signatory Dated: September 10, 2002 B-4
(REVERSE OF TREASURY UNITS CERTIFICATE) Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the "Purchase Contract Agreement") between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent (including its successors thereunder, herein called the "Purchase Contract Agent"), as to which the Purchase Contract Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Purchase Contract Agent, the Company and the Holders and of the terms upon which the Treasury Units Certificates are, and are to be, executed and delivered. Unless an Early Settlement has occurred, each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date at a price equal to the Stated Amount (the "Purchase Price") a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Rate, unless prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, there shall have occurred a Termination Event with respect to the Security of which such Purchase Contract is a part. The "Settlement Rate" is equal to: (1) if the Applicable Market Value (as defined below) is greater than or equal to $40.2480 (the "Threshold Appreciation Price"), 1.2423 share of Common Stock per Purchase Contract; (2) if the Applicable Market Value is less than the Threshold Appreciation Price but greater than $33.54 (the "Reference Price"), the number of shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract having a value equal to the Stated Amount divided by the Applicable Market Value; and (3) if the Applicable Market Value is less than or equal to the Reference Price, then 1.4908 shares of Common Stock per Purchase Contract, in each case subject to adjustment as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share). No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.09 of the Purchase Contract Agreement. Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, which is settled either through Early Settlement or Cash Settlement, shall obligate the Holder of the related Treasury Unit to purchase at the Purchase Price for cash, and the Company to sell, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Early Settlement Rate or the Settlement Rate, as applicable. The "Applicable Market Value" means the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock on each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. B-5
The "Closing Price" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means the: (1) closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price) per share on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on such date; (2) if the Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any such date, the closing sale price per share as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Stock is so listed; (3) if the Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, the closing sale price per share as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market; (4) if the Common Stock is not so reported, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization; or (5) if such bid price is not available, the market value of the Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company. A "Trading Day" means a day on which the Common Stock (1) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the close of business and (2) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock. In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Holder of this Treasury Unit shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of the Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby either by effecting a Cash Settlement or an Early Settlement of each such Purchase Contract or by applying a principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Holder's Treasury Unit equal to the Stated Amount of such Purchase Contract to the purchase of the Common Stock. A Holder of Treasury Units who does not, (1) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, notify the Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to effect a Cash Settlement, (2) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, make an effective Early Settlement or (3) deliver the Purchase Price in cash by 11:00 a.m. on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date after notifying the Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to effect a Cash Settlement, shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under the related Purchase Contract from the proceeds of the Pledged Treasury Securities. B-6
The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in respect of a Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate purchase price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner herein set forth. By acquiring a Treasury Unit, a Holder of Treasury Units agrees to treat the Treasury Securities constituting part of the Treasury Units as owned by such Holder for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax purposes. Each Purchase Contract evidenced hereby and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holder thereunder shall terminate if a Termination Event shall occur. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent and to the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Pledged Treasury Securities (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) forming a part of each Treasury Unit. A Treasury Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the interest in the Treasury Security forming a part of such Treasury Unit, in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. The Treasury Units Certificates are issuable only in registered form and only in denominations of a single Treasury Unit and any integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Treasury Units Certificate will be registered and Treasury Units Certificates may be exchanged as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents permitted by the Purchase Contract Agreement. No service charge shall be required for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. A Holder who elects to substitute Preferred Securities or Notes, for Treasury Securities, thereby recreating Corporate Units, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses associated therewith. Except as provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement, for so long as the Purchase Contract underlying a Treasury Unit remains in effect, such Treasury Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the Holder of such Treasury Unit in respect of the Treasury Security and the Purchase Contract constituting such Treasury Unit may be transferred and exchanged only as a Treasury Unit. A Holder of Treasury Units may recreate Corporate Units by delivering to the Securities Intermediary Preferred Securities with an aggregate liquidation amount, Notes with an aggregate principal amount or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, equal to the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Pledged Treasury Securities in exchange for the release of such Pledged Treasury Securities in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. From and after such substitution, the Holder's Security shall be referred to as a "Corporate Unit." Any such creation of Corporate Units may be effected only in multiples of 20 Treasury Units for 20 Corporate Units. B-7
If the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities or Notes as a component of the Corporate Units as a result of a Tax Event Redemption or a Successful Initial Remarketing, a Treasury Unit Holder may make such Collateral Substitutions only in such integral multiples of Treasury Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be purchased in whole multiples. A Holder of Corporate Units may recreate Treasury Units by delivering to the Securities Intermediary Treasury Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities, the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Pledged Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. Any such recreation of Treasury Units may be effected only in multiples of 20 Corporate Units for 20 Treasury Units. If the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities or Notes as a component of the Corporate Units as a result of a Tax Event Redemption, a Successful Initial Remarketing or, with respect to the Preferred Securities, as a result of a Liquidation Distribution, a Corporate Unit Holder may make such Collateral Substitutions only in such integral multiples of Corporate Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be released in whole multiples. The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Purchase Contract Payments payable in respect of each Purchase Contract to the Person in whose name the Treasury Units Certificate evidencing such Purchase Contract is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Purchase Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Purchase Contract Agent in New York City or, at the option of the Holder, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such address as it appears on the Security Register. The Company has the right to defer payment of all or part of the Purchase Contract Payments in respect of each Purchase Contract until no later than the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. If the Company so elects to defer Purchase Contract Payments, the Company shall pay additional Purchase Contract Payments on such deferred installments of Purchase Contract Payments at a rate equal to 10.25% per annum, compounded quarterly, until such deferred installments are paid. In the event that the Company elects to defer the payment of Purchase Contract Payments on the Purchase Contracts until the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, each Holder will receive on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the total amount of deferred Purchase Contract Payments payable to such Holder divided by the Applicable Market Value, provided that the Company shall be required to pay cash representing deferred Purchase Contract Payments unless the Company gives the Holders and the Purchase Contract Agent notice of its election not to pay cash within the time period prescribed in the Purchase Contract Agreement. The Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Purchase Contract Payments, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Purchase Contract B-8
Agent or the Company, if, on or prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Termination Event shall have occurred. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written notice to the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall release the Treasury Securities from the Pledge in accordance with the provisions of the Pledge Agreement. A Treasury Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the interest in the Treasury Security forming a part of such Treasury Unit, in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement. Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Treasury Units may effect Early Settlement of the Purchase Contract underlying such Treasury Units pursuant to the terms of Section 5.04(b)(2) of the Purchase Contract Agreement. In addition, a Holder of reasury Units may effect Early Settlement of the Purchase Contract underlying such Treasury Units pursuant to the terms of Section 5.07 of the Purchase Contract Agreement. Upon Early Settlement of Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Treasury Units, the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Treasury Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge Agreement. Upon registration of transfer of this Treasury Units Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement), under the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Purchase Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the obligations under the Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Treasury Units Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by its acceptance hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this paragraph. The Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the related Purchase Contracts forming part of the Treasury Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e., affirmance) of the Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the event that the Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code, agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to perform its obligations under such Purchase Contracts, consents to the provisions of the Purchase Contract Agreement, authorizes the Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact, and consents to the Pledge of the Treasury Securities underlying this Treasury Units Certificate pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. The Holder further covenants and agrees, that, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, payments in respect to the aggregate principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments. B-9
Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Purchase Contract Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority of the Purchase Contracts. The Purchase Contracts shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles thereof. The Company, the Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in whose name this Treasury Units Certificate is registered as the owner of the Treasury Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of receiving payments of interest on the Treasury Securities, receiving payments of Purchase Contract Payments, performance of the Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and neither the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Purchase Contracts shall not, prior to the settlement thereof, entitle the Holder to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock. A copy of the Purchase Contract Agreement is available for inspection at the offices of the Purchase Contract Agent. B-10
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM: as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT: _________________ Custodian ________________ (cust) (minor) Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of __________ TENANT: as tenants by the entireties JT TEN: as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please insert Social Security or Taxpayer I.D. or other Identifying Number of Assignee) ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please Print or Type Name and Address Including Postal Zip Code of Assignee) the within Treasury Units Certificates and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Treasury Units Certificates on the books of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, and PSEG Funding Trust I with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: _____________________________ Signature_____________________________ NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Corporate Units Certificates in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever. Signature Guarantee: _____________________________________________ B-11
SETTLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the Purchase Contract Settlement Date of the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Treasury Units evidenced by this Treasury Units Certificate be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: __________ _____________________________________ Signature Signature Guarantee: ________________ (if assigned to another person) If shares are to be registered in the REGISTERED HOLDER name of and delivered to a Person other than the Holder, please (i) print such Please print name and address of Person's name and address and (ii) Registered Holder: provide a guarantee of your signature: _________________________________________ _____________________________________ Name Name _________________________________________ _____________________________________ Address Address _________________________________________ _____________________________________ _________________________________________ _____________________________________ _________________________________________ _____________________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ B-12
ELECTION TO SETTLE EARLY The undersigned Holder of this Treasury Units Certificate hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect Early Settlement [following a Cash Merger] in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Treasury Units evidenced by this Treasury Units Certificate specified below. The option to effect Early Settlement may be exercised only with respect to Purchase Contracts underlying Treasury Units with an aggregate Stated Amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof. The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock deliverable upon such Early Settlement be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for any fractional share and any Treasury Units Certificate representing any Treasury Units evidenced hereby as to which Early Settlement of the related Purchase Contracts is not effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Treasury Securities deliverable upon such Early Settlement will be transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set forth below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto. Dated: ______________________________ ________________________________________ Signature Signature Guarantee: ___________________________________ B-13
Number of Securities evidenced hereby as to which Early Settlement of the related Purchase Contracts is being elected: If shares of Common Stock or Treasury UnitsCertificates are to be registered in the name of and delivered to and Pledged Treasury Securities are to be transferred to a Person other than the Holder, please print such Person's name and address: REGISTERED HOLDER Please print name and address of Registered Holder: ___________________________________ ________________________________________ Name Name ___________________________________ ________________________________________ Address Address ___________________________________ ________________________________________ ___________________________________ ________________________________________ ___________________________________ ________________________________________ Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any ________________________________ B-14
Transfer Instructions for Pledged Treasury Securities Transferable Upon or Early Settlement or a Termination Event: ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ B-15
[TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL CERTIFICATES] SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL CERTIFICATE The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made: B-16
EXHIBIT C INSTRUCTION TO PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT Wachovia Bank, National Association 21 South Street Morristown, NJ 07960 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: [_______ Corporate Units] [_______ Treasury Units] of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I. The undersigned Holder hereby notifies you that it has delivered to The Bank of New York, as Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account, $______ aggregate [liquidation] [principal] amount of [Preferred Securities] [Notes] [Treasury Securities] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] in exchange for the [Pledged Preferred Securities] [Pledged Notes] [Pledged Treasury Securities] held in the Collateral Account, in accordance with the Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between you, the Company, the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary. The undersigned Holder has paid all applicable fees relating to such exchange. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to instruct the Collateral Agent to release to you on behalf of the undersigned Holder the [Pledged Preferred Securities] [Pledged Notes] [Pledged Treasury Securities] [Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests] related to such [Corporate Units] [Treasury Units]. Dated: _____________________________ Signature_____________________________ Signature Guarantee: _____________________________________________ C-1
Please print name and address of Registered Holder: ________________________________ _____________________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any Address ________________________________________ ________________________________________ ________________________________________ ________________________________________ C-2
EXHIBIT D NOTICE FROM PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO HOLDERS (Transfer of Collateral upon Occurrence of a Termination Event) [HOLDER] ________________________________ ________________________________ Attention: Telecopy: __________ Re: [__________ Corporate Units] [______ Treasury Units] of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I Please refer to the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Purchase Contract Agreement," unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between the Company and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units and Treasury Units from time to time. We hereby notify you that a Termination Event has occurred and that [the Notes][the Treasury Securities] [Preferred Securities] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] serving as Collateral underlying your ownership interest in _____ [Corporate Units] [Treasury Units] have been released and are being held by us for your account pending receipt of transfer instructions with respect to such [Notes][Treasury Securities] [Preferred Securities] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] (the "Released Securities"). Pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Purchase Contract Agreement, we hereby request written transfer instructions with respect to the Released Securities. Upon receipt of your instructions and upon transfer to us of your [Corporate Units][Treasury Units] effected through book-entry or by delivery to us of your [Corporate Units Certificate][Treasury Units Certificate], we shall transfer the Released Securities by book-entry transfer or other appropriate procedures, in accordance with your instructions. In the event you fail to effect such transfer or delivery, the Released Securities and any distributions thereon, shall be held in our name, or a nominee in trust for your benefit, until such time as such [Corporate Units][Treasury Units] are transferred or your [Corporate Units Certificate] [Treasury Units Certificate] is surrendered or satisfactory evidence is provided that such [Corporate Units Certificate][Treasury Units Certificate] has been destroyed, lost or stolen, together with any indemnification that we or the Company may require. Date: By: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION _________________________________________ Name: Title: Authorized Signatory D-1
EXHIBIT E NOTICE TO SETTLE BY CASH Wachovia Bank, National Association 21 South Street Morristown, NJ 07960 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: [_______ Corporate Units] [Treasury Units] of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I The undersigned Holder hereby irrevocably notifies you in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Purchase Contract Agreement"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between the Company and you, as Purchase Contract Agent and as Attorney-in-Fact for the Holders of the Purchase Contracts, that such Holder has elected to pay to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account, prior to or on 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers' check or wire transfer, in immediately available funds), $______ as the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock issuable to such Holder by the Company under the related Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to notify promptly the Collateral Agent of the undersigned Holders' election to make such cash settlement with respect to the Purchase Contracts related to such Holder's [Corporate Units] [Treasury Units]. Dated: _____________________________ Signature_________________________________ Signature Guarantee: _____________________ Please print name and address of Registered Holder: E-1
EXHIBIT F NOTICE FROM PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO COLLATERAL AGENT AND PROPERTY TRUSTEE (Settlement of Purchase Contract through Remarketing) The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street New York, New York 10285 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 Wachovia Bank, National Association 21 South Street Morristown, NJ 07960 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 973-682-4531 Re: __________ Corporate Units of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I Please refer to the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Purchase Contract Agreement," unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between the Company and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Corporate Units from time to time. In accordance with Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract Agreement and, based on instructions and Cash Settlements received from Holders of Corporate Units as of 11:00 a.m. (New York City time), the fourth Business Day preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, we hereby notify you that ______ [Preferred Securities] [Notes] are to be tendered for purchase in the Secondary Remarketing. Date: By: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ____________________________________ Name: Title: Authorized Signatory F-1

Exhibit 4.8 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Purchase Contract Agent PLEDGE AGREEMENT Dated as of September 10, 2002
TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE ---- ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01. Definitions..................................................2 ARTICLE 2 PLEDGE SECTION 2.01. Pledge.......................................................6 SECTION 2.02. Control; Financing Statement.................................7 SECTION 2.03. Termination..................................................7 ARTICLE 3 DISTRIBUTIONS ON PLEDGED COLLATERAL SECTION 3.01. Income Distributions.........................................7 SECTION 3.02. Principal Payments Following Termination Event...............7 SECTION 3.03. Principal Payments Prior to or on Purchase Contract Settlement Date..............................................7 SECTION 3.04. Payments to Purchase Contract Agent..........................8 SECTION 3.05. Assets Not Properly Released.................................8 ARTICLE 4 CONTROL SECTION 4.01. Establishment of Collateral Account..........................9 SECTION 4.02. Treatment as Financial Assets................................9 SECTION 4.03. Sole Control by Collateral Agent.............................9 SECTION 4.04. Securities Intermediary's Location...........................9 SECTION 4.05. No Other Claims..............................................9 SECTION 4.06. Investment and Release......................................10 SECTION 4.07. Statements and Confirmations................................10 SECTION 4.08. Tax Allocations.............................................10 SECTION 4.09. No Other Agreements.........................................10 SECTION 4.10. Powers Coupled with an Interest.............................10 ARTICLE 5 INITIAL DEPOSIT; ESTABLISHMENT OF TREASURY UNITS AND REESTABLISHMENT OF CORPORATE UNITS SECTION 5.01. Initial Deposit of Preferred Securities.....................10 SECTION 5.02. Establishment of Treasury Units.............................11 SECTION 5.03. Reestablishment of Corporate Units..........................13 SECTION 5.04. Termination Event...........................................15 SECTION 5.05. Cash Settlement.............................................16 SECTION 5.06. Early Settlement............................................17 SECTION 5.07. Application of Proceeds in Settlement of Purchase Contracts...................................................18 SECTION 5.08. Tax Event Redemption........................................20 ARTICLE 6 VOTING RIGHTS - PLEDGED PREFERRED SECURITIES AND PLEDGED NOTES SECTION 6.01. Voting Rights...............................................20 i
ARTICLE 7 RIGHTS AND REMEDIES SECTION 7.01. Rights and Remedies of the Collateral Agent.................21 SECTION 7.02. Substitution of Notes or Treasury Portfolio.................22 SECTION 7.03. Tax Event Redemption........................................22 SECTION 7.04. Initial Remarketing.........................................23 SECTION 7.05. Substitutions...............................................24 ARTICLE 8 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; COVENANTS SECTION 8.01. Representations and Warranties..............................24 SECTION 8.02. Covenants...................................................24 ARTICLE 9 THE COLLATERAL AGENT, THE CUSTODIAL AGENT AND THE SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY SECTION 9.01. Appointment, Powers and Immunities..........................25 SECTION 9.02. Instructions of the Company.................................26 SECTION 9.03. Reliance....................................................26 SECTION 9.04. Rights in Other Capacities..................................26 SECTION 9.05. Non-Reliance................................................27 SECTION 9.06. Compensation and Indemnity..................................27 SECTION 9.07. Failure to Act..............................................27 SECTION 9.08. Resignation.................................................28 SECTION 9.09. Right to Appoint Agent or Advisor...........................29 SECTION 9.10. Survival....................................................30 SECTION 9.11. Exculpation.................................................30 ARTICLE 10 AMENDMENT SECTION 10.01. Amendment without Consent of Holders........................30 SECTION 10.02. Amendment with Consent of Holders...........................30 SECTION 10.03. Execution of Amendments.....................................31 SECTION 10.04. Effect of Amendments........................................31 SECTION 10.05. Reference of Amendments.....................................31 ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 11.01. No Waiver...................................................32 SECTION 11.02. Governing Law...............................................32 SECTION 11.03. Notices.....................................................32 SECTION 11.04. Successors and Assigns......................................32 SECTION 11.05. Counterparts................................................33 SECTION 11.06. Severability................................................33 SECTION 11.07. Expenses, Etc...............................................33 SECTION 11.08. Security Interest Absolute..................................33 SECTION 11.09. Notice of Tax Event, Tax Event Redemption and Termination Event...........................................34 ii
Exhibit A - Instruction from Purchase Contract Agent to Collateral Agent (Establishment of Treasury Units) Exhibit B - Instruction from Collateral Agent to Securities Intermediary (Establishment of Treasury Units) Exhibit C - Instruction from Purchase Contract Agent to Collateral Agent (Reestablishment of Corporate Units) Exhibit D - Instruction from Collateral Agent to Securities Intermediary (Reestablishment of Corporate Units) Exhibit E - Notice of Cash Settlement from Securities Intermediary to Purchase Contract Agent (Cash Settlement Amounts) Exhibit F - Instruction to Custodial Agent Regarding Remarketing Exhibit G - Instruction to Custodial Agent Regarding Withdrawal From Remarketing iii
PLEDGE AGREEMENT PLEDGE AGREEMENT, dated as of September 10, 2002, among Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, not individually but solely as collateral agent (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the "Collateral Agent"), as custodial agent (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the "Custodial Agent") and as "securities intermediary" as defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the UCC (as defined herein) (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the "Securities Intermediary"), and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, not individually but solely as purchase contract agent and as attorney-in-fact of the Holders (as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) from time to time of the Securities (as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the "Purchase Contract Agent") under the Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined herein). RECITALS The Company and the Purchase Contract Agent are parties to the Purchase Contract Agreement dated as of the date hereof (as modified and supplemented and in effect from time to time, the "Purchase Contract Agreement"), pursuant to which 9,200,000 Corporate Units (as defined herein) will be issued. Each Corporate Unit (as defined herein), at issuance, consists of a unit comprised of (a) a stock purchase contract (a "Purchase Contract") under which the Holder will purchase from the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (as defined herein), for an amount equal to $50 (the "Stated Amount"), a number of shares of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated common stock, no par value ("Common Stock"), equal to the Settlement Rate (as defined herein), and (b) either beneficial ownership of a preferred trust security (a "Preferred Security") issued by PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), having a liquidation amount equal to the Stated Amount, a Note (as defined below) or an Applicable Ownership Interest in the Treasury Portfolio (as defined below). Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Purchase Contracts, the Holders of the Securities have irrevocably authorized the Purchase Contract Agent, as attorney-in-fact of such Holders, among other things, to execute and deliver this Agreement on behalf of such Holders and to grant the pledge provided herein of the Collateral (as defined herein) to secure the Obligations (as defined herein). Accordingly, the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent, on its own behalf and as attorney-in-fact of the Holders from time to time of the Securities, agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS SECTION 1.01. Definitions. For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular; (b) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, Exhibit or other subdivision; (c) the following terms which are defined in the UCC shall have the meanings set forth therein: "certificated security," "control," "financial asset," "entitlement order," "investment property," "securities account" and "security entitlement"; (d) the following terms have the meanings assigned to them in the Purchase Contract Agreement: "Act," "Bankruptcy Code," "Board Resolution," "Business Day," "Cash Merger," "Cash Settlement," "Certificate," "Early Settlement," "Early Settlement Amount," "Early Settlement Date," "Failed Initial Remarketing," "Failed Secondary Remarketing," "Holder," "Initial Remarketing," "Initial Remarketing Date," "Initial Reset Date," "Notes," "Officers' Certificate," "Opinion of Counsel," "Outstanding Securities," "Purchase Contract," "Purchase Contract Settlement Date," "Purchase Price," "Remarketing Agent," "Remarketing Agreement," "Remarketing Fee," "Secondary Remarketing," "Security," "Separate Preferred Securities or Notes," "Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price," "Settlement Rate," "Successful Initial Remarketing," "Termination Event," and "Underwriting Agreement"; (e) the following terms have the meanings assigned to them in the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of PSEG Funding Trust I, of even date herewith (the "Declaration"): "Applicable Ownership Interest," "Applicable Principal Amount," "Event of Default," "Indenture," "Indenture Trustee," "Liquidation Distribution," "Primary Treasury Dealer," "Property Trustee," "Quotation Agent," "Redemption Amount," "Redemption Price," "Remarketing," "Tax Event," "Tax Event Redemption," "Tax Event Redemption Date," "Treasury Portfolio," and Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price; and (f) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.01(f): "Agreement" means this Pledge Agreement, as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. "Cash" means any coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for payment of public and private debts. 2
"Collateral" means the collective reference to: (i) all investment property and other financial assets from time to time credited to the Collateral Account, including, without limitation, (A) the Preferred Securities and security entitlements relating thereto which are a component of the Corporate Units from time to time, (B) the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in Clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Holders with respect to the Treasury Portfolio which are a component of the Corporate Units from time to time, (C) the Notes and security entitlements relating thereto which are a component of the Corporate Units from time to time, (D) any Treasury Securities and security entitlements relating thereto delivered from time to time upon establishment of Treasury Units in accordance with Section 5.02 hereof and (E) payments made by Holders pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof; (ii) all Proceeds of any of the foregoing (whether such Proceeds arise before or after the commencement of any proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, by or against the pledgor or with respect to the pledgor) (Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the avoidance of doubt, the cash payments at a rate of 6.25% per year (or in the event of deferred and unpaid Distributions on the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, 10.25% per year) of the Stated Amount per Corporate Unit to Holders of Corporate Units, whether current or deferred, shall not be considered as Proceeds of the Pledged Securities and therefore are not part of the Collateral); and (iii) all powers and rights now owned or hereafter acquired under or with respect to the Collateral Account. "Collateral Account" means the securities account of The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, as pledgee of Wachovia Bank, National Association, as the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders." "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor shall have become such, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor. "Corporate Unit" means the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Corporate Units Certificate in respect of a Preferred Security, a Note or an appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, subject in each case to the Pledge thereof, and the related Purchase Contract; provided that the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interest (as specified in clause (B) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio shall not be subject to the Pledge. "Corporate Units Certificate" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Corporate Units specified on such certificate. "Obligations" means, with respect to each Holder, the collective reference to all obligations and liabilities of such Holder under such Holder's Purchase Contract, the Purchase 3
Contract Agreement, and this Agreement or any other document made, delivered or given in connection herewith or therewith, in each case whether on account of principal, interest (including, without limitation, interest accruing before and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to such Holder, whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding), fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (including, without limitation, all fees and disbursements of counsel to the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary that are required to be paid by the Holder pursuant to the terms of any of the foregoing agreements). "Permitted Investments" means any one of the following which shall mature not later than the next succeeding Business Day: (1) any evidence of indebtedness with an original maturity of 365 days or less issued, or directly and fully guaranteed or insured, by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged in support of the timely payment thereof or such indebtedness constitutes a general obligation of it); (2) deposits, certificates of deposit or acceptances with an original maturity of 365 days or less of any institution which is a member of the Federal Reserve System having combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $200.0 million at the time of deposit (and which may include the Collateral Agent); (3) investments with an original maturity of 365 days or less of any Person that is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a bank referred to in clause (2); (4) repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements relating to marketable direct obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by the United States Government or issued by any agency thereof and backed as to timely payment by the full faith and credit of the United States Government; (5) investments in commercial paper, other than commercial paper issued by the Company or its affiliates, of any corporation incorporated under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, which commercial paper has a rating at the time of purchase at least equal to "A-1" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") or at least equal to "P-1" by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"); (6) investments in money market funds (including, but not limited to, money market funds managed by the Collateral Agent or an affiliate of the Collateral Agent) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, rated in the highest applicable rating category by S&P or Moody's; and (7) a cash escrow product offered by the Collateral Agent, which may consist of trust funds, trust accounts or interest-bearing demand or time deposits, including certificates of deposit, which are held by any commercial bank having a short term deposit rating at the time of purchase of at least "A-2" or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least "P-2" or the equivalent thereof by Moody's. 4
"Person" means any legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Pledge" means the lien and security interest created by this Agreement. "Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests" means the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition thereof) of the Holders with respect to the Treasury Portfolio from time to time credited to the Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Pledged Notes" means Notes and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to time credited to the Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Pledged Preferred Securities" means the Preferred Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to time credited to the Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the paragraph preceding the recitals of this Agreement. "Pledged Securities" means the Pledged Preferred Securities, the Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests, the Pledged Notes or the Pledged Treasury Securities, collectively. "Pledged Treasury Securities" means Treasury Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to time credited to the Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge. "Proceeds" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the UCC and includes, without limitation, all interest, dividends, cash, instruments, securities, financial assets (as defined in ss.8-102(a)(9) of the UCC) and other property received, receivable or otherwise distributed upon the sale, exchange, collection or disposition of any financial assets from time to time held in the Collateral Account. "Purchase Contract Agent" has the meaning specified in the paragraph preceding the recitals of this Agreement. "Separate Notes" means Notes which are not components of Corporate Units. "Separate Preferred Securities" means Preferred Securities which are not components of Corporate Units. "Stated Amount" has the meaning specified in the recitals of this Agreement. "TRADES" means the Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to the TRADES Regulations. 5
"TRADES Regulations" means the regulations of the United States Department of the Treasury, published at 31 C.F.R. Part 357, as amended from time to time. Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms defined in the TRADES Regulations are used herein as therein defined. "Transfer" means in the case of certificated securities in registered form, delivery as provided in ss.8-301(a) of the UCC, endorsed to the transferee or in blank by an effective endorsement; in the case of Treasury Securities, registration of the transferee as the owner of such Treasury Securities on TRADES; and in the case of security entitlements, including, without limitation, security entitlements with respect to Treasury Securities, a securities intermediary indicating by book entry that such security entitlement has been credited to the transferee's securities account. "Treasury Securities" means zero-coupon U.S. treasury securities (CUSIP No. 912820FX0 or 912820BQ9) which mature on November 15, 2005. "Treasury Unit" means, following the substitution of Treasury Securities for Preferred Securities or Notes as collateral to secure a Holder's obligations under the Purchase Contract, the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Treasury Units Certificate in respect of such Treasury Securities, subject to the Pledge thereof, and the related Purchase Contract. "Treasury Units Certificate" means a certificate evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number of Treasury Units specified on such certificate. "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New York from time to time. "Value" means, with respect to any item of Collateral on any date, as to (1) Cash, the face amount thereof and (2) Treasury Securities or Notes, the aggregate principal amount thereof at maturity and (3) Applicable Ownership Interests, the appropriate percentage (as specified in clause (A) of the definition thereof) of the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Treasury Portfolio and (4) the Preferred Securities, the liquidation amount thereof. ARTICLE 2 PLEDGE SECTION 2.01. Pledge. Each Holder, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as such Holder's attorney-in-fact, hereby pledges and grants to the Collateral Agent, as agent of and for the benefit of the Company, a continuing first priority security interest in and to, and a lien upon and right of set-off against, all of such Holder's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral to secure the prompt and complete payment and performance when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations. The Collateral Agent shall have all of the rights, remedies and recourses with respect to the Collateral afforded a secured party by the UCC, in addition to, and not in limitation of, the other rights, remedies and recourses afforded to the Collateral Agent by this Agreement. 6
SECTION 2.02. Control; Financing Statement. (a) The Collateral Agent shall have control of the Collateral Account pursuant to the provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement. (b) Subsequent to the date of initial issuance of the Securities, the Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a copy of the financing statement prepared by the Company and filed in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of New York and any other jurisdictions which the Company deems necessary, authorized by the Purchase Contract Agent to be filed, as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, as Debtors, and describing the Collateral, such filing to be undertaken by the Company. SECTION 2.03. Termination. As to each Holder, this Agreement and the Pledge created hereby shall terminate upon the satisfaction of such Holder's Obligations. Upon written notice by the Company of such termination, the Collateral Agent shall Transfer such Holder's portion of the Collateral to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder in accordance with such Holder's interest, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest created hereby. ARTICLE 3 DISTRIBUTIONS ON PLEDGED COLLATERAL SECTION 3.01. Income Distributions. All income distributions received by the Collateral Agent on account of the Pledged Preferred Securities, the Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio, the Pledged Notes or Permitted Investments from time to time held in the Collateral Account shall be distributed to the Purchase Contract Agent (at an account specified by the Purchase Contract Agent) for the benefit of the applicable Holders as provided in the Purchase Contracts or Purchase Contract Agreement. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for the avoidance of doubt, the cash payments at a rate of 6.25% per year (or in the event of deferred and unpaid Distributions on the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, 10.25% per year) of the Stated Amount per Corporate Unit to Holders of Corporate Units, whether current or deferred, shall not be subject to the Pledge and therefore are not part of the Collateral. SECTION 3.02. Principal Payments Following Termination Event. All payments received by the Collateral Agent following a Termination Event of (1) the aggregate liquidation amount of Pledged Preferred Securities or securities entitlements thereto, (2) the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition thereof) of the aggregate principal amount of the Treasury Portfolio, (3) the aggregate principal amount of the Pledged Notes or securities entitlements thereto, or (4) the principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities, shall be distributed to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests. SECTION 3.03. Principal Payments Prior to or on Purchase Contract Settlement Date. (a) Subject to the provisions of Sections 5.06, 5.08 and 7.04, and except as provided in Section 3.03(b) below, if no Termination Event shall have occurred, all payments received by 7
the Collateral Agent of (1) the aggregate liquidation amount with respect to the Pledged Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto, (2) the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition thereof) of the aggregate principal amount of the Treasury Portfolio, (3) the aggregate principal amount with respect to the Pledged Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto or (4) the principal amount of Pledged Treasury Securities, shall be held and invested by the Collateral Agent in Permitted Investments until the Purchase Contract Settlement Date and on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date distributed to the Company as provided in Section 5.07 hereof. Any balance remaining in the Collateral Account shall be distributed to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests. The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent as to the type of Permitted Investments in which any payments made under this Section shall be invested, provided, however, that if the Company fails to deliver such instructions by 10:30 a.m. (New York City time), the Collateral Agent shall invest such payments in the Permitted Investments described in clause (7) of the definition of Permitted Investments. (b) All payments received by the Collateral Agent of (1) the aggregate liquidation amount of Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto, (2) the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition thereof) of the aggregate principal amount of the Treasury Portfolio, (3) the aggregate principal amount with respect to the Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto or (4) the principal amount of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto, that, in each case, have been released from the Pledge shall be distributed to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests. SECTION 3.04. Payments to Purchase Contract Agent. The Collateral Agent shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to deliver payments to the Purchase Contract Agent hereunder to the account designated by the Purchase Contract Agent for such purpose not later than 12:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day such payment is received by the Collateral Agent; provided, however, that if any such payment is received by the Collateral Agent on a day that is not a Business Day or after 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, then the Collateral Agent shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such payment to the Purchase Contract Agent no later than 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the next succeeding Business Day. SECTION 3.05. Assets Not Properly Released. If the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder shall receive any principal payments on account of financial assets credited to the Collateral Account and not released therefrom in accordance with this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent or such Holder shall hold the same as trustee of an express trust for the benefit of the Company and, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate of the Company so directing, promptly deliver the same to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account or to the Company for application to the Obligations of the Holders, and the Purchase Contract Agent and Holders shall acquire no right, title or interest in any such payments of principal amounts so received. 8
ARTICLE 4 CONTROL SECTION 4.01. Establishment of Collateral Account. The Securities Intermediary hereby confirms that: (a) the Securities Intermediary has established the Collateral Account; (b) the Collateral Account is a securities account; (c) subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Securities Intermediary shall identify in its records the Collateral Agent as the entitlement holder entitled to exercise the rights that comprise any financial asset credited to the Collateral Account; (d) all property delivered to the Securities Intermediary pursuant to this Agreement or the Purchase Contract Agreement will be credited promptly to the Collateral Account; and (e) all securities or other property underlying any financial assets credited to the Collateral Account shall be registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent and endorsed to the Securities Intermediary or in blank, registered in the name of the Securities Intermediary or credited to another securities account maintained in the name of the Securities Intermediary. SECTION 4.02. Treatment as Financial Assets. Each item of property (whether investment property, financial asset, security, instrument or cash) credited to the Collateral Account shall be treated as a financial asset. SECTION 4.03. Sole Control by Collateral Agent. Except as provided in Section 6.01, at all times prior to the termination of the Pledge, the Collateral Agent shall have sole control of the Collateral Account, and the Securities Intermediary shall take instructions and directions with respect to the Collateral Account solely from the Collateral Agent. If at any time the Securities Intermediary shall receive an entitlement order issued by the Collateral Agent and relating to the Collateral Account, the Securities Intermediary shall comply with such entitlement order without further consent by the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder or any other Person. Until termination of the Pledge, the Securities Intermediary will not comply with any entitlement orders issued by the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder. SECTION 4.04. Securities Intermediary's Location. The Collateral Account, and the rights and obligations of the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders with respect thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York. Regardless of any provision in any other agreement, for purposes of the UCC, New York shall be deemed to be the Securities Intermediary's location. SECTION 4.05. No Other Claims. Except for the claims and interest of the Collateral Agent and of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders in the Collateral Account, the Securities Intermediary (without making any investigation) does not know of any claim to, or interest in, the Collateral Account or in any financial asset credited thereto. If any Person asserts any lien, encumbrance or adverse claim (including any writ, garnishment, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process) against the Collateral Account or in any financial asset 9
carried therein, the Securities Intermediary will promptly notify the Collateral Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent in writing. SECTION 4.06. Investment and Release. All proceeds of financial assets from time to time deposited in the Collateral Account shall be invested and reinvested as provided in this Agreement. At all times prior to termination of the Pledge, no property shall be released from the Collateral Account except in accordance with this Agreement or upon written instructions of the Collateral Agent. SECTION 4.07. Statements and Confirmations. The Securities Intermediary will promptly send copies of all statements, confirmations and other correspondence concerning the Collateral Account and any financial assets credited thereto simultaneously to each of the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent at their addresses for notices under this Agreement. SECTION 4.08. Tax Allocations. The Purchase Contract Agent shall file with the Internal Revenue Service and deliver to the Holders Forms 1099 (or successor or comparable forms), to the extent required by law, with respect to payments received by the Holders. Neither the Securities Intermediary nor the Collateral Agent shall have any tax reporting duties hereunder. SECTION 4.09. No Other Agreements. The Securities Intermediary has not entered into, and prior to the termination of the Pledge will not enter into, any agreement with any other Person relating to the Collateral Account or any financial assets credited thereto, including, without limitation, any agreement to comply with entitlement orders of any Person other than the Collateral Agent. SECTION 4.10. Powers Coupled with an Interest. The rights and powers granted in this Article 4 to the Collateral Agent have been granted in order to perfect its security interests in the Collateral Account, are powers coupled with an interest and will be affected neither by the bankruptcy of the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder nor by the lapse of time. The obligations of the Securities Intermediary under this Article 4 shall continue in effect until the termination of the Pledge. ARTICLE 5 INITIAL DEPOSIT; ESTABLISHMENT OF TREASURY UNITS AND REESTABLISHMENT OF CORPORATE UNITS SECTION 5.01. Initial Deposit of Preferred Securities. (a) Concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agent, on behalf of the initial Holders of the Corporate Units, shall Transfer to the Collateral Agent, for credit to the Collateral Account, the Preferred Securities or security entitlements relating thereto, and the Securities Intermediary shall indicate by book-entry that a securities entitlement to such Preferred Securities has been credited to the Collateral Account. (b) Prior to any Event of Default, the Collateral Agent agrees to hold any Preferred Securities or Notes or security interests relating thereto, constituting a portion of the Collateral 10
registered in the name of the Purchase Contract Agent with appropriate endorsement in the form delivered to it and shall not re-register such Preferred Securities or Notes or security interests relating thereto. SECTION 5.02. Establishment of Treasury Units. (a) So long as the Treasury Portfolio has not replaced the Preferred Securities as a component of Corporate Units as a result of a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption and no dissolution or liquidation of the Trust shall have occurred, at any time on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Holder of Corporate Units shall have the right to establish or reestablish Treasury Units by substitution of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Pledged Preferred Securities comprising a part of such Holder's Corporate Units in integral multiples of 20 Corporate Units by: (i) Transferring to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having a Value equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, (A) stating that such Holder has Transferred Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account, (B) stating the Value of the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto Transferred by such Holder and (C) requesting that the Collateral Agent release from the Pledge the Pledged Preferred Securities that are a component of such Corporate Units; and (ii) delivering the related Corporate Units to the Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice and confirmation that Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, to release such Pledged Preferred Securities from the Pledge by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest created hereby. (b) If the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities or Notes as a component of Corporate Units as a result of a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption on or at any time prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Holder of Corporate Units shall have the right to establish or reestablish Treasury Units by substitution of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio comprising a part of such Holder's Corporate Units in integral multiples of Corporate Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be released in whole multiples by: 11
(i) Transferring to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having a Value equal to the Value of the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, (A) stating that such Holder has Transferred Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account, (B) stating the Value of the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto Transferred by such Holder and (C) requesting that the Collateral Agent release from the Pledge the Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio that are a component of such Corporate Units; and (ii) delivering the related Corporate Units to the Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice and confirmation that Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, to release such Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio from the Pledge by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest created hereby. (c) If the Trust shall have been dissolved and liquidated and the Notes have become a component of the Corporate Units and neither a Successful Initial Remarketing nor a Tax Event Redemption Date shall have occurred, at any time on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Holder of Corporate Units shall have the right to substitute Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Pledged Notes comprising a part of such Holder's Corporate Units in integral multiples of 20 Corporate Units by: (i) Transferring to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having a Value equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Pledged Notes to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, (A) stating that such Holder has Transferred Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account, (B) stating the Value of the Treasury Securities or securities entitlements with respect thereto Transferred by such Holder and (C) requesting that the Collateral Agent release from the Pledge the Pledged Notes that are a component of such Corporate Units; and (ii) delivering the related Corporate Units to the Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice and confirmation that Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account as described in 12
such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, to release such Pledged Notes from the Pledge by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest created hereby. SECTION 5.03. Reestablishment of Corporate Units. (a) So long as the Treasury Portfolio has not replaced the Preferred Securities as a component of Corporate Units as a result of a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption and no dissolution or liquidation of the Trust shall have occurred, at any time on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Holder of Treasury Units shall have the right to reestablish Corporate Units by substitution of Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for Pledged Treasury Securities in integral multiples of 20 Treasury Units by: (i) Transferring to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto having a liquidation amount equal to the Value of the Pledged Treasury Securities to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, stating that such Holder has Transferred Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account and requesting that the Collateral Agent release from the Pledge the Pledged Treasury Securities related to such Treasury Units; and (ii) delivering the related Treasury Units to the Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice and confirmation that Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice in the form provided in Exhibit D hereto to release such Pledged Treasury Securities from the Pledge by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest created hereby. (b) If the Treasury Portfolio has replaced the Preferred Securities or Notes as a component of Corporate Units as a result of a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption on or at any time prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Holder of Treasury Units shall have the right to reestablish Corporate Units by substitution of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio comprising a part of such Holder's Treasury Units in integral multiples of Treasury Units as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be purchased in whole multiples by: (i) Transferring to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) 13
of the Treasury Portfolio having a Value equal to the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, (A) stating that such Holder has Transferred Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account, (B) stating the Value of the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio Transferred by such Holder and (C) requesting that the Collateral Agent release from the Pledge the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto that are a component of such Treasury Units; and (ii) delivering the related Treasury Units to the Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice and confirmation that the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio have been credited to the Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, to release the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto from the Pledge by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest created hereby. (c) If the Trust shall have been dissolved and liquidated and the Notes have become a component of the Corporate Units and neither a Successful Initial Remarketing nor a Tax Event Redemption Date shall have occurred, at any time on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, a Holder of Treasury Units shall have the right to reestablish Corporate Units by substitution of Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto for Pledged Treasury Securities in integral multiples of 20 Treasury Units by: (i) Transferring to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto having a principal amount equal to the Value of the Pledged Treasury Securities to be released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Purchase Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, stating that such Holder has Transferred the Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account and requesting that the Collateral Agent release from the Pledge the Pledged Treasury Securities related to such Treasury Units; and (ii) delivering the related Treasury Units to the Purchase Contract Agent. Upon receipt of such notice and confirmation that Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice in the form provided in Exhibit D to release such Pledged Treasury Securities from Pledge by Transfer to the Purchase 14
Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest created hereby. SECTION 5.04. Termination Event. (a) Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of written notice from the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent that a Termination Event has occurred, the Collateral Agent shall release all Collateral from the Pledge and shall promptly Transfer: (i) any Pledged Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto, the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio (if the Treasury Portfolio has become a component of the Corporate Units as a result of a Successful Initial Remarketing or Tax Event Redemption) or the Pledged Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto (if the Trust has been dissolved and liquidated, and the Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto have become a component of the Corporate Units); (ii) any Pledged Treasury Securities; and (iii) payments by Holders or the Permitted Investments of such payments pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof, to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective interests, free and clear of any lien, pledge or security interest or other interest created hereby; provided, however, if any Holder shall be entitled to receive less than $1,000 with respect to his interest in the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, the Purchase Contract Agent shall have the right but not the obligation to dispose of such interest for cash and deliver to such Holder cash in lieu of delivering the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio. (b) If such Termination Event shall result from the Company becoming a debtor under the Bankruptcy Code, and if the Collateral Agent shall for any reason fail promptly to effectuate the release and Transfer of all Pledged Preferred Securities, the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, the Pledged Notes, the Pledged Treasury Securities or payments by Holders or the Permitted Investments of such payments pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof, as the case may be, as provided by this Section 5.04, the Purchase Contract Agent shall, subject to Section 7.01(b)(3): (i) use its best efforts to obtain an opinion of a nationally recognized law firm reasonably acceptable to the Collateral Agent to the effect that, as a result of the Company being the debtor in such a bankruptcy case, the Collateral Agent will not be prohibited from releasing or Transferring the Collateral as provided in this Section 5.04, and shall deliver such opinion to the Collateral Agent within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event, and if (A) the Purchase Contract Agent shall be unable to obtain such opinion within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event or (B) the Collateral Agent shall continue, after delivery of such opinion, to refuse to effectuate the release and Transfer of all Pledged Preferred Securities, Applicable 15
Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, Pledged Notes, Pledged Treasury Securities, the payments by Holders or the Permitted Investments of such payments pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof or the Proceeds of any of the foregoing, as the case may be, as provided in this Section 5.04, then the Purchase Contract Agent shall, within fifteen days after the occurrence of such Termination Event commence an action or proceeding in the court having jurisdiction of the Company's case under the Bankruptcy Code seeking an order requiring the Collateral Agent to effectuate the release and transfer of all Pledged Preferred Securities, Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, Pledged Notes, Pledged Treasury Securities, or the payments by Holders or the Permitted Investments of such payments pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof, or as the case may be, as provided by this Section 5.04; or (ii) commence an action or proceeding like that described in clause Section 5.04(b)(i) hereof within ten days after the occurrence of such Termination Event. SECTION 5.05. Cash Settlement. (a) Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of (1) a notice from the Purchase Contract Agent promptly after the receipt by the Purchase Contract Agent of a notice from a Holder of Corporate Units that such Holder has elected, in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 5.02(b)(i) or (e)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, respectively, to effect a Cash Settlement and (2) payment by such Holder by deposit in the Collateral Account prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date of the Purchase Price in lawful money of the United States by certified or cashier's check or wire transfer of immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary, then the Collateral Agent shall: (i) instruct the Securities Intermediary promptly to invest any such Cash in Permitted Investments; (ii) release from the Pledge the Corporate Unit Holder's or the Treasury Unit Holder's related Pledged Preferred Securities, Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, Pledged Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as applicable, as to which such Holder has elected to effect a Cash Settlement pursuant to this Section 5.05(a); and (iii) instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Pledged Preferred Securities, Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, Pledged Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of such Holder, in each case free and clear of the Pledge created hereby, for distribution to such Holder. The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent in writing as to the type of Permitted Investments in which any such Cash shall be invested; provided, however, that if the Company fails to deliver such written instructions by 10:30 a.m. (New York City time), the Securities 16
Intermediary shall invest such Cash in the Permitted Investments described in clause (7) of the definition of Permitted Investments. Upon receipt of the proceeds upon the maturity of the Permitted Investments on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Collateral Agent shall in respect of each Purchase Contract settled pursuant to Section 5.02(b)(i) or (e)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement (A) instruct the Securities Intermediary to pay the portion of such proceeds and deliver any certified or cashier's checks received, in an amount equal to the Purchase Price, to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, and (B) instruct the Securities Intermediary to release any amounts in excess of the Purchase Price earned from such Permitted Investments to the Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder. (b) If a Holder of Corporate Units (unless a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing shall have occurred) fails to notify the Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to make a Cash Settlement as provided in paragraph 5.02(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have consented to the disposition of such Holder's Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, as the case may be, in accordance with paragraph 5.02(b)(iii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement. (c) If a Holder of a Corporate Unit (if a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing shall have occurred) or a Holder of a Treasury Unit (i) fails to notify the Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to make a Cash Settlement as provided in paragraph 5.02(e)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement or (ii) does notify the Purchase Contract Agent as provided in paragraph 5.02(e)(ii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement of its intention to pay the Purchase Price in cash, but fails to make such payment as required by paragraph 5.02(e)(ii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have elected to pay the Purchase Price in accordance with paragraph 5.02(e)(iii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement. (d) As soon as practicable after 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Collateral Agent shall deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto, stating (i) the amount of Cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement of Corporate Units and (ii) the amount of Cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement of Treasury Units. SECTION 5.06. Early Settlement. Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of a notice from the Purchase Contract Agent that a Holder of Securities has elected to effect Early Settlement of its obligations under the Purchase Contracts forming a part of such Securities in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Contracts and Section 5.07 or Section 5.04(b)(2) (in case of an early settlement upon a Cash Merger) of the Purchase Contract Agreement (which notice shall set forth the number of such Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement), and that the Purchase Contract Agent has received from such Holder, and paid to the Company as confirmed in writing by the Company, the related Early Settlement Amounts or Purchase Price (if such Early Settlement is pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(2) of the Purchase Contract Agreement) pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contracts and the Purchase Contract Agreement and that all conditions to such Early Settlement have been satisfied, then the 17
Collateral Agent shall release from the Pledge, (1) Pledged Preferred Securities, appropriate Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definitions at such term) of the Treasury Portfolio or Pledged Notes in the case of a Holder of Corporate Units or (2) Pledged Treasury Securities, in the case of a Holder of Treasury Units, in each case with a Value equal to the product of (x) the Stated Amount times (y) the number of Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement, and shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Pledged Preferred Securities, appropriate Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definitions at such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, Pledged Notes or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case may be, to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of such Holder, in each case free and clear of the Pledge created hereby, for distribution to such Holder. A Treasury Unit Holder may settle early only in integral multiples of 20 Purchase Contracts and a Corporate Unit Holder, if a Tax Event Redemption Date or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred, may settle early only in such integral multiples of Purchase Contracts as will enable the U.S. Treasury securities comprising the Applicable Ownership Interest of the Treasury Portfolio to be released in whole multiples. SECTION 5.07. Application of Proceeds in Settlement of Purchase Contracts. (a) If a Holder of Corporate Units (unless a Successful Initial Remarketing or a Tax Event Redemption has occurred) has not elected to make an effective Cash Settlement by notifying the Purchase Contract Agent in the manner provided for in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have elected to pay for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under such Purchase Contracts from the Proceeds of the Remarketing of the related Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes. Upon written notice of such event from the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer the related Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing. Upon receiving such Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, the Remarketing Agent, pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, will use reasonable efforts to Remarket such Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes. The Remarketing Agent will deposit the Proceeds of such Secondary Remarketing (less, to the extent permitted by the Remarketing Agreement, the Remarketing Fee) in the Collateral Account, and the Collateral Agent shall invest the Proceeds of the Remarketing in Permitted Investments set forth in clause (7) of the definition of Permitted Investments, unless prior to 10:30 a.m. (New York City time), the Company shall otherwise instruct the Collateral Agent as to the type of Permitted Investments in which any such Proceeds shall be invested. On the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Purchase Contract Agent shall give written direction to the Collateral Agent specifying the instruction the Collateral Agent shall give to the Securities Intermediary in order to apply a portion of the Proceeds from such Remarketing equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of such Pledged Notes to satisfy in full such Holder's obligations to pay the Purchase Price to purchase the shares of Common Stock under the related Purchase Contracts and the balance of the Proceeds from the Remarketing, if any, that shall be transferred to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of such Holder for distribution to such Holder. If (i) the Remarketing Agent advises the Collateral Agent in writing that there has been a Failed Secondary Remarketing or (ii) a Holder of Corporate Units has given notice of its intention to make a Cash Settlement in the manner provided for in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the 18
Purchase Contract Agreement, but failed to deliver the required cash prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, thus, in each case, resulting in an event of default under the Purchase Contract Agreement and hereunder, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company shall, at the written direction of the Company, exercise its rights as a secured party with respect to the Pledged Notes and use commercially reasonable efforts to dispose of the Pledged Notes in accordance with applicable law and apply the proceeds from such disposition in full satisfaction of such Holder's obligations to pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock. (b) If a Holder of Corporate Units (if a Tax Event Redemption or a Successful Initial Remarketing has occurred) or a Holder of Treasury Units has not elected to make an effective Cash Settlement by notifying the Purchase Contract Agent in the manner provided for in Section 5.02(e)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, or has given such notice but failed to make such payment in the manner required by Section 5.02(e)(ii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have elected to pay for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under such Purchase Contracts from the Proceeds of the related Pledged Treasury Securities or such Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be. Promptly, after 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Collateral Agent shall invest the Cash Proceeds of the maturing Pledged Treasury Securities or such Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, in Permitted Investments set forth in clause (7) of the definition of Permitted Investments, unless prior to 10:30 a.m. (New York City time), the Company shall otherwise instruct the Collateral Agent as to the type of Permitted Investments in which any such Cash Proceeds shall be invested. Without receiving any instruction from any such Holder, the Collateral Agent shall apply the Proceeds of the related Pledged Treasury Securities or such Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, to the settlement of such Purchase Contracts on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. In the event the sum of the Proceeds from the related Pledged Treasury Securities or such Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio as the case may be, and the investment earnings from the investment in Permitted Investments exceeds the aggregate Purchase Price of the Purchase Contracts being settled thereby, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to distribute such excess, when received, to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of such Holder for distribution to such Holder. (c) Under the Remarketing Agreement and subject to the terms of any supplemental Remarketing Agreement, on or prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, as the case may be, but no earlier than the Payment Date immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, Holders of Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as the case may be, may elect to have their Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as the case may be, remarketed by delivering their Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as the case may be, along with a notice of such election, substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto, to the Custodial Agent. The Custodial Agent shall hold Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as 19
the case may be, in an account separate from the Collateral Account in which the Pledged Securities shall be held. Holders of Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as the case may be, electing to have their Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as the case may be, remarketed will also have the right to withdraw that election by written notice to the Custodial Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit G hereto, on or prior to the second Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, as applicable, upon which notice the Custodial Agent shall return such Separate Notes to such Holder. On or prior to 11:00 a.m. on the Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date or the Secondary Remarketing Date, as applicable, the Custodial Agent shall notify the Remarketing Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of the Separate Preferred Securities or the aggregate principal amount of the Separate Notes, as the case may be, to be remarketed and will deliver to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing all Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as the case may be, delivered to the Custodial Agent pursuant to this Section 5.07(c) and not withdrawn pursuant to the terms hereof prior to such date. After deducting the Remarketing Fee to the extent permitted under the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, the Remarketing Agent will remit to the Custodial Agent the remaining portion of the proceeds of such Remarketing for the benefit of such Holders. In the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing or a Failed Secondary Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent will promptly return such Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes, as the case may be, to the Custodial Agent for redelivery to such Holders. SECTION 5.08. Tax Event Redemption. If the Collateral Agent receives written notice that a Tax Event Redemption Date has occurred while the Preferred Securities or Notes are still credited to the Collateral Account, the Collateral Agent shall apply the Redemption Amount to purchase the Treasury Portfolio from the Quotation Agent and the Collateral Agent shall credit the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio to the Collateral Account and shall transfer the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (B) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio to the Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holders of the Corporate Units. Upon credit to the Collateral Account of the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio having a Value equal to the liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities or the aggregate principal amount of the Pledged Notes, the Collateral Agent shall cause the Securities Intermediary to release the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes, as applicable, from the Collateral Account and to promptly transfer the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, as the case may be, to the Company. ARTICLE 6 VOTING RIGHTS - PLEDGED PREFERRED SECURITIES AND PLEDGED NOTES SECTION 6.01. Voting Rights. The Purchase Contract Agent may exercise, or refrain from exercising, any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes or any part thereof for any purpose not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Purchase Contract Agreement; provided, that the Purchase Contract Agent shall give the Company and the Collateral Agent at least five Business Days' prior written notice of the manner in which it intends to exercise, or its reasons for refraining from exercising, any such right. Upon receipt of any notices and other communications in respect of any Pledged Preferred Securities or the 20
Pledged Notes, including notice of any meeting at which holders of the Preferred Securities or the Notes are entitled to vote or solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of holders of the Preferred Securities or Notes, the Collateral Agent shall use reasonable efforts to send promptly to the Purchase Contract Agent such notice or communication, and as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of a written request therefor from the Purchase Contract Agent, execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent such proxies and other instruments in respect of such Pledged Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes (in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Agent) as are delivered by the Purchase Contract Agent with respect to the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes. ARTICLE 7 RIGHTS AND REMEDIES SECTION 7.01. Rights and Remedies of the Collateral Agent. (a) In addition to the rights and remedies specified in Section 5.07 hereof or otherwise available at law or in equity, after an event of default (as specified in Section 7.01(b) below) hereunder, the Collateral Agent shall have all of the rights and remedies with respect to the Collateral of a secured party under the UCC (whether or not the UCC is in effect in the jurisdiction where the rights and remedies are asserted) and the TRADES Regulations and such additional rights and remedies to which a secured party is entitled under the laws in effect in any jurisdiction where any rights and remedies hereunder may be asserted. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such remedies may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, (1) retention of the Pledged Preferred Securities, Pledged Notes, Pledged Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio in full satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Purchase Contracts and the Purchase Contract Agreement or (2) sale of the Pledged Preferred Securities, Pledged Notes, Pledged Treasury Securities or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio in one or more public or private sales. (b) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this Agreement to the Collateral Agent, in the event the Collateral Agent is unable to make payments to the Company on account of the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, or on account of principal payments of any Pledged Treasury Securities as provided in Article 3 hereof, in satisfaction of the Obligations of the Holder of the Securities of which such Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests or such Pledged Treasury Securities, as applicable, are a part under the related Purchase Contracts, the inability to make such payments shall constitute an event of default hereunder and the Collateral Agent shall have and may exercise, with reference to such Pledged Treasury Securities or Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio, as applicable, any and all of the rights and remedies available to a secured party under the UCC and the TRADES Regulations after default by a debtor, and as otherwise granted herein or under any other law. (c) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this Agreement to the Collateral Agent, the Collateral Agent is hereby irrevocably authorized to receive and collect all payments of (i) the liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities, (ii) the principal 21
amount of the Pledged Notes, (iii) the principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities and (iv) the principal amount of the Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests, subject, in each case, to the provisions of Article 3 hereof, and as otherwise granted herein. (d) The Purchase Contract Agent and each Holder of Securities agrees that, from time to time, upon the written request of the Collateral Agent or the Purchase Contract Agent, such Holder shall execute and deliver such further documents and do such other acts and things as the Collateral Agent may reasonably request in order to maintain the Pledge, and the perfection and priority thereof, and to confirm the rights of the Collateral Agent hereunder. The Purchase Contract Agent shall have no liability to any Holder or any other third party for executing any documents or taking any such acts requested by the Collateral Agent hereunder, except for liability for its own negligent acts, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct. SECTION 7.02. Substitution of Notes or Treasury Portfolio. If the Trust shall have been dissolved and liquidated prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Purchase Contract Agent shall Transfer to the Collateral Agent Notes having a Value equal to the liquidation amount of the Pledged Preferred Securities for credit to the Collateral Account. Upon credit to the Collateral Account of such Notes, the Collateral Agent shall release the Pledged Preferred Securities from the Collateral Account and shall promptly transfer the same to the Purchase Contract Agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a dissolution and liquidation of the Trust, if a Liquidation Distribution is to be distributed in lieu of the Notes as provided for in the Declaration, the Liquidation Distribution shall be credited to the Collateral Account by the Property Trustee, on or prior to 12:30 p.m., New York City time, on the date of distribution of the Liquidation Distribution, by federal funds check or wire transfer of immediately available funds. The Collateral Agent is hereby authorized to present the Pledged Preferred Securities for payment as may be required by their terms. Upon receipt of such funds, the Pledged Preferred Securities shall be released from the Collateral Account. In the event such funds are credited to the Collateral Account, the Collateral Agent, at the written direction of the Company, shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to (a) apply an amount equal to the Redemption Amount of such Liquidation Distribution to purchase the Treasury Portfolio from the Quotation Agent for credit to the Collateral Account and (b) promptly remit the remaining portion of such Liquidation Distribution, if any, to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of Corporate Units. To the extent that the Treasury Portfolio is purchased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Treasury Portfolio shall replace the Preferred Securities as Collateral as and to the extent that the Proceeds from such Liquidation Distribution were Proceeds from a Tax Event Redemption or Succeeding Initial Remarketing for all purposes under this Agreement and the Purchase Contract Agreement. To the extent that the Proceeds from such Liquidation Distribution are not sufficient to purchase the Treasury Portfolio, the Collateral Agent shall invest such Proceeds in Permitted Investments set forth in clause (7) of the definition of Permitted Investments. SECTION 7.03. Tax Event Redemption. Upon the occurrence of a Tax Event Redemption Date while Preferred Securities or Notes are still credited to the Collateral Account, the Redemption Amount, plus any accumulated and unpaid distributions, or any accrued and unpaid interest, as the case may be, payable on the Tax Event Redemption Date with respect to the Applicable Principal Amount shall be credited to the Collateral Account by the Property 22
Trustee or, in case there has been a dissolution of the Trust and the distribution of the related Notes, by the Indenture Trustee, on or prior to 12:30 p.m., New York City time on such Tax Event Redemption Date, by federal funds check or wire transfer of immediately available funds. The Collateral Agent is hereby authorized to present the Pledged Preferred Securities or the Pledged Notes for payment as may be required by their respective terms. Upon receipt of such funds, the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, as the case may be, shall be released from the Collateral Account. In the event such funds are credited to the Collateral Account, the Collateral Agent, at the written direction of the Company, shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to (a) apply an amount equal to the Redemption Amount of such funds to purchase the Treasury Portfolio from the Quotation Agent for credit to the Collateral Account and (b) promptly remit the remaining portion of such funds, if any, to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of Corporate Units. SECTION 7.04. Initial Remarketing. Upon notice from the Company of the Initial Remarketing Date, the Collateral Agent shall, by 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Remarketing Date, without any instruction from any Holder of Corporate Units, present the related Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, as the case may be, to the Remarketing Agent for remarketing. Upon receiving such Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes and any Separate Preferred Securities or Separate Notes duly presented for remarketing pursuant to Section 5.02(a)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Remarketing Agent, pursuant to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, will use its reasonable efforts to remarket such Preferred Securities or Notes on the Initial Remarketing Date at a price of approximately 100.25% (but not less than 100%) of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price, plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes. After deduction as the Remarketing Fee of an amount not exceeding 25 basis points (.25%) of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes from any amount of such Proceeds in excess of the sum of Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price, and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, the Remarketing Agent will remit the entire amount of the Proceeds of such Remarketing of the Pledged Securities or Pledged Notes to the Collateral Agent on or prior to 12:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Initial Reset Date by check or wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and at such account as may be designated by the Collateral Agent in exchange for the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes. In the event the Collateral Agent receives such Proceeds, the Collateral Agent will, at the written direction of the Company, apply an amount equal to the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price to purchase from the Quotation Agent the Treasury Portfolio and promptly remit the remaining portion of such Proceeds to the Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of Corporate Units. The Collateral Agent shall Transfer the Treasury Portfolio to the Collateral Account to secure the obligation of all Holders of Corporate Units to purchase Common Stock of the Company under the Purchase Contracts constituting a part of such Corporate Units, in substitution for the Pledged Preferred Securities or Pledged Notes, which shall be released from the Collateral Account. With respect to the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes, any proceeds of the Initial Remarketing in excess of the Remarketing Fee attributable to the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes will be remitted to the Custodial Agent for payment to the holders of Separate Preferred Securities or Notes. In the event of a Failed Initial 23
Remarketing, the Preferred Securities or Notes presented to the Remarketing Agent pursuant to this Section 7.03 for Remarketing shall be redeposited into the Collateral Account. SECTION 7.05. Substitutions. Whenever a Holder has the right to substitute Treasury Securities, Preferred Securities, Notes or security entitlements for any of them or the appropriate Applicable Ownership Interests of the Treasury Portfolio, as the case may be, for financial assets held in the Collateral Account, such substitution shall not constitute a novation of the security interest created hereby. ARTICLE 8 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; COVENANTS SECTION 8.01. Representations and Warranties. Each Holder from time to time, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any representation or warranty made by or on behalf of a Holder), hereby represents and warrants to the Collateral Agent (with respect to such Holder's interest in the Collateral), which representations and warranties shall be deemed repeated on each day a Holder Transfers Collateral that: (a) such Holder has the power to grant a security interest in and lien on the Collateral; (b) such Holder is the sole beneficial owner of the Collateral and, in the case of Collateral delivered in physical form, is the sole holder of such Collateral and is the sole beneficial owner of, or has the right to Transfer, the Collateral it Transfers to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account, free and clear of any security interest, lien, encumbrance, call, liability to pay money or other restriction other than the security interest and lien granted under Article 2 hereof; (c) upon the Transfer of the Collateral to the Collateral Agent for credit to the Collateral Account, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, will have a valid and perfected first priority security interest therein (assuming that any central clearing operation or any securities intermediary or other entity not within the control of the Holder involved in the Transfer of the Collateral, including the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary, gives the notices and takes the action required of it hereunder and under applicable law for perfection of that interest and assuming the establishment and exercise of control pursuant to Article 4 hereof); and (d) the execution and performance by the Holder of its obligations under this Agreement will not result in the creation of any security interest, lien or other encumbrance on the Collateral other than the security interest and lien granted under Article 2 hereof or violate any provision of any existing law or regulation applicable to it or of any mortgage, charge, pledge, indenture, contract or undertaking to which it is a party or which is binding on it or any of its assets. SECTION 8.02. Covenants. The Holders from time to time, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any covenant made by or on behalf of a Holder), hereby covenant to the Collateral Agent that for so long as the Collateral remains subject to the Pledge: 24
(a) neither the Purchase Contract Agent nor such Holders will create or purport to create or allow to subsist any mortgage, charge, lien, pledge or any other security interest whatsoever over the Collateral or any part of it other than pursuant to this Agreement; and (b) neither the Purchase Contract Agent nor such Holders will sell or otherwise dispose (or attempt to dispose) of the Collateral or any part of it except for the beneficial interest therein, subject to the Pledge hereunder, transferred in connection with the Transfer of the Securities. ARTICLE 9 THE COLLATERAL AGENT, THE CUSTODIAL AGENT AND THE SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY It is hereby agreed as follows: SECTION 9.01. Appointment, Powers and Immunities. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall act as agent for the Company hereunder with such powers as are specifically vested in the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, by the terms of this Agreement, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary shall: (a) have no duties or responsibilities except those expressly set forth in this Agreement and no implied covenants or obligations shall be inferred from this Agreement against the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, nor shall the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary be bound by the provisions of any agreement by any party hereto beyond the specific terms hereof; (b) not be responsible for any recitals contained in this Agreement, or in any certificate or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by it under, this Agreement, the Securities or the Purchase Contract Agreement, or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability (other than as against the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be) or sufficiency of this Agreement, the Securities or the Purchase Contract Agreement or any other document referred to or provided for herein or therein or for any failure by the Company or any other Person (except the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be) to perform any of its obligations hereunder or thereunder or for the perfection, priority or, except as expressly required hereby, maintenance of any security interest created hereunder; (c) not be required to initiate or conduct any litigation or collection proceedings hereunder (except pursuant to written directions furnished under Section 9.02 hereof, subject to Section 9.06 hereof); (d) not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it hereunder or under any other document or instrument referred to or provided for herein or in connection herewith or therewith, except for its own negligence or willful misconduct; and 25
(e) not be required to advise any party as to selling or retaining, or taking or refraining from taking any action with respect to, any securities or other property deposited hereunder. Subject to the foregoing, during the term of this Agreement, the Collateral Agent shall take all reasonable action in connection with the safekeeping and preservation of the Collateral hereunder. No provision of this Agreement shall require the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder. In no event shall the Collateral Agent or Securities Intermediary be liable for any amount in excess of the Value of the Collateral. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each of the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary in its individual capacity hereby waives any right of setoff, bankers' lien, liens or perfection rights as securities intermediary or any counterclaim with respect to any of the Collateral. SECTION 9.02. Instructions of the Company. The Company shall have the right, by one or more written instruments executed and delivered to the Collateral Agent, to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for the realization of any right or remedy available to the Collateral Agent, or of exercising any power conferred on the Collateral Agent, or to direct the taking or refraining from taking of any action authorized by this Agreement; provided, however, that (i) such direction shall not conflict with the provisions of any law or of this Agreement and (ii) the Collateral Agent shall have received indemnity satisfactory to it as provided herein. Nothing contained in this Section 9.02 shall impair the right of the Collateral Agent in its discretion to take any action or omit to take any action which it deems proper and which is not inconsistent with such direction. SECTION 9.03. Reliance. Each of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent and the Collateral Agent shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon any certification, order, judgment, opinion, notice or other written communication (including, without limitation, any thereof by e-mail or similar electronic means, telecopy, telex or facsimile) believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by or on behalf of the proper Person or Persons (without being required to determine the correctness of any fact stated therein) and consult with and rely upon advice, opinions and statements of legal counsel and other experts selected by the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder in accordance with instructions given by the Company in accordance with this Agreement. SECTION 9.04. Rights in Other Capacities. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary and their affiliates may (without having to account therefor to the Company) accept deposits from, lend money to, make their investments in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust or other business with the Purchase Contract Agent, any other Person interested herein and any Holder of Securities (and any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) as if it were not acting as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial 26
Agent, the Securities Intermediary and their affiliates may accept fees and other consideration from the Purchase Contract Agent and any Holder of Securities without having to account for the same to the Company; provided that each of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent and the Collateral Agent covenants and agrees with the Company that it shall not accept, receive or permit there to be created in favor of itself and shall take no affirmative action to permit there to be created in favor of any other Person, any security interest, lien or other encumbrance of any kind in or upon the Collateral other than the lien created by the Pledge. SECTION 9.05. Non-Reliance. None of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent or the Collateral Agent shall be required to keep itself informed as to the performance or observance by the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Securities of this Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Securities or any other document referred to or provided for herein or therein or to inspect the properties or books of the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Securities. None of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have any duty or responsibility to provide the Company with any credit or other information concerning the affairs, financial condition or business of the Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Securities (or any of their respective affiliates) that may come into the possession of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective affiliates. SECTION 9.06. Compensation and Indemnity. The Company agrees to: (a) pay the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, for all services rendered by them hereunder; (b) indemnify and hold harmless the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary and each of their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (collectively, the "Indemnitees"), harmless from and against any and all claims, liabilities, losses, damages, fines, penalties and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) (collectively, "Losses" and individually, a "Loss") that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against, the Indemnitees or any of them for following any instructions or other directions upon which either the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary is entitled to conclusively rely pursuant to the terms of this Agreement; and (c) in addition to and not in limitation of paragraph (b) immediately above, indemnify and hold the Indemnitees and each of them harmless from and against any and all Losses that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against, the Indemnitees or any of them in connection with or arising out of the Collateral Agent's, the Custodial Agent's or the Securities Intermediary's acceptance or performance of its powers and duties under this Agreement, provided the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has not acted with negligence or engaged in willful misconduct or bad faith with respect to the specific Loss against which indemnification is sought. SECTION 9.07. Failure to Act. In the event of any ambiguity in the provisions of this Agreement or any dispute between or conflicting claims by or among the parties hereto or any 27
other Person with respect to any funds or property deposited hereunder, then at its sole option, each of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled, after prompt notice to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent, to refuse to comply with any and all claims, demands or instructions with respect to such property or funds so long as such dispute or conflict shall continue, and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall not be or become liable in any way to any of the parties hereto for its failure or refusal to comply with such conflicting claims, demands or instructions. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled to refuse to act until either: (a) such conflicting or adverse claims or demands shall have been finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or settled by agreement between the conflicting parties as evidenced in a writing satisfactory to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary; or (b) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have received security or an indemnity satisfactory to it sufficient to save it harmless from and against any and all loss, liability or reasonable out-of-pocket expense which it may incur by reason of its acting. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may in addition elect to commence an interpleader action or seek other judicial relief or orders as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary may deem necessary. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, none of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be required to take any action that is in its opinion contrary to law or to the terms of this Agreement, or which would in its opinion subject it or any of its officers, employees or directors to liability. SECTION 9.08. Resignation. (a) Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary as provided below: (i) if the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary is the same Person as the Purchase Contract Agent and an event of default occurs under the Purchase Contract Agreement or this Agreement, except an event of default as a result of (x) a Failed Secondary Remarketing or (y) the event referred to in clause (ii) of the second paragraph of Section 5.07(a) hereof, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall resign immediately; (ii) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may resign at any time by giving notice thereof to the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Securities; (iii) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may be removed at any time by the Company; and 28
(iv) if the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary fails to perform any of its material obligations hereunder in any material respect for a period of not less than 20 days after receiving written notice of such failure by the Purchase Contract Agent and such failure shall be continuing, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary may be removed by the Purchase Contract Agent, acting at the written direction of the Holders of Securities. The Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly notify the Company of any removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary pursuant to clause (iv) of this Section 9.08(a). Upon any such resignation or removal, the Company shall have the right to appoint a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, which, in the case of a resignation pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 9.08(a), shall not be an Affiliate of the Purchase Contract Agent. If no successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall have been so appointed and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or Securities Intermediary's giving of notice of resignation or the Company's or the Purchase Contract Agent's giving notice of such removal, then the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary at the expense of the Company may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall each be a bank or a national banking association which has an office (or an agency office) in New York City with a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder by a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, such successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, and the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall take all appropriate action, subject to payment of any amounts owed to it hereunder, to transfer any money and property held by it hereunder (including the Collateral) to such successor. The retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall, upon such succession, be discharged from its duties and obligations as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder. After any retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or Securities Intermediary's resignation hereunder as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, the provisions of this Article 9 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary. Any resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder, at a time when such Person is acting as the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as the simultaneous resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, Securities Intermediary or Custodial Agent, as the case may be. SECTION 9.09. Right to Appoint Agent or Advisor. The Collateral Agent shall have the right to appoint agents or advisors in connection with any of its duties hereunder, and the Collateral Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by, or in reliance upon the advice of, such agents or advisors selected in good faith. The appointment of agents pursuant to 29
this Section 9.09 shall be subject to prior consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. SECTION 9.10. Survival. The provisions of this Article 9 shall survive termination of this Agreement and the resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary. SECTION 9.11. Exculpation. Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall any of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary or their officers, directors, employees or agents be liable under this Agreement to any third party for indirect, special, punitive, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever, including, but not limited to, lost profits, whether or not the likelihood of such loss or damage was known to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, or any of them. ARTICLE 10 AMENDMENT SECTION 10.01. Amendment Without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent, at any time and from time to time, may amend this Agreement, in form satisfactory to the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent, to: (a) evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company; (b) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent, Securities Intermediary or Purchase Contract Agent; (c) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company, provided such covenants or such surrender do not adversely affect the validity, perfection or priority of the Pledge created hereunder; or (d) cure any ambiguity (or formal defect), correct or supplement any provisions herein which may be inconsistent with any other such provisions herein, or make any other provisions with respect to such matters or questions arising under this Agreement, provided such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders. SECTION 10.02. Amendment with Consent of Holders. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the Purchase Contracts at the time outstanding, by Act of such Holders delivered to the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Collateral Agent, as the case may be, the Company, when duly authorized by a Board Resolution, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Collateral Agent may amend this Agreement for the purpose of modifying in any manner the provisions of this Agreement or the rights of the Holders in respect 30
of the Securities; provided, however, that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the unanimous consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Security adversely affected thereby in any material respect: (a) change the amount or type of Collateral underlying a Security (except for the rights of holders of Corporate Units to substitute the Treasury Securities for the Pledged Preferred Securities, the Pledged Notes or the Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests, as the case may be, or the rights of Holders of Treasury Units to substitute Preferred Securities, Notes or the Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio, as applicable, for the Pledged Treasury Securities), impair the right of the Holder of any Security to receive distributions on the underlying Collateral or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights in or to such Collateral; or (b) otherwise effect any action that would require the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement if such action were effected by an agreement supplemental thereto; or (c) reduce the percentage of Purchase Contracts the consent of whose Holders is required for any such amendment; provided that if any amendment or proposal referred to above would adversely affect only the Corporate Units or only the Treasury Units, then only the affected class of Holders as of the record date for the Holders entitled to vote thereon will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal, and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the consent of Holders of not less than a majority of such class; provided further that the unanimous consent of the Holders of each outstanding Purchase Contract of such class affected thereby shall be required to approve any amendment or proposal specified in clauses (a) through (c) above. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. SECTION 10.03. Execution of Amendments. In executing any amendment permitted by this Article, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 of the Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Purchase Contract Agent) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Agreement and that all conditions precedent, if any, to the execution and delivery of such amendment have been satisfied. SECTION 10.04. Effect of Amendments. Upon the execution of any amendment under this Section, this Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such amendment shall form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder of Certificates theretofore or thereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered under the Purchase Contract Agreement shall be bound thereby. SECTION 10.05. Reference of Amendments. Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered after the execution of any amendment pursuant to this 31
Section may, and shall if required by the Collateral Agent or the Purchase Contract Agent, bear a notation in form approved by the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent as to any matter provided for in such amendment. If the Company shall so determine, new Certificates so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Collateral Agent, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company, to any such amendment may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with the Purchase Contract Agreement in exchange for Certificates representing Outstanding Securities. ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 11.01. No Waiver. No failure on the part of the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law. SECTION 11.02. Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Holders from time to time of the Securities, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact, hereby submit to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and of any New York state court sitting in New York City for the purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Holders from time to time of the Securities, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact, irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which they may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. SECTION 11.03. Notices. All notices, requests, consents and other communications provided for herein (including, without limitation, any modifications of, or waivers or consents under, this Agreement) shall be given or made in writing (including, without limitation, by telecopy) delivered to the intended recipient at the "Address for Notices" specified below its name on the signature pages hereof or, as to any party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the other parties. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all such communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when transmitted by telecopier or personally delivered or, in the case of a mailed notice, upon receipt, in each case given or addressed as aforesaid. SECTION 11.04. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent, and 32
the Holders from time to time of the Securities, by their acceptance of the same, shall be deemed to have agreed to be bound by the provisions hereof and to have ratified the agreements of, and the grant of the Pledge hereunder by, the Purchase Contract Agent. SECTION 11.05. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. SECTION 11.06. Severability. If any provision hereof is invalid and unenforceable in any jurisdiction, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) the other provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and shall be liberally construed in order to carry out the intentions of the parties hereto as nearly as may be possible and (ii) the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction. SECTION 11.07. Expenses, Etc. The Company agrees to reimburse the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary for: (a) all reasonable costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary), in connection with (i) the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery or performance of this Agreement and (ii) any modification, supplement or waiver of any of the terms of this Agreement; (b) all reasonable costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) in connection with (i) any enforcement or proceedings resulting or incurred in connection with causing any Holder of Securities to satisfy its obligations under the Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Securities and (ii) the enforcement of this Section 11.07(b); (c) all transfer, stamp, documentary or other similar taxes, assessments or charges levied by any governmental or revenue authority in respect of this Agreement or any other document referred to herein and all costs, expenses, taxes, assessments and other charges incurred in connection with any filing, registration, recording or perfection of any security interest contemplated hereby; (d) all reasonable fees and expenses of any agent or advisor appointed by the Collateral Agent and consented to by the Company under Section 9.09 of this Agreement; and (e) any other out-of-pocket costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary in connection with the performance of their duties hereunder. SECTION 11.08. Security Interest Absolute. All rights of the Collateral Agent and security interests hereunder, and all obligations of the Holders from time to time hereunder, shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of: 33
(a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any provision of the Purchase Contracts or the Securities or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or any other term of, or any increase in the amount of, all or any of the obligations of Holders of the Securities under the related Purchase Contracts, or any other amendment or waiver of any term of, or any consent to any departure from any requirement of, the Purchase Contract Agreement or any Purchase Contract or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; or (c) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or discharge of, a borrower, a guarantor or a pledgor. SECTION 11.09. Notice of Tax Event, Tax Event Redemption and Termination Event. Upon the occurrence of a Tax Event, a Tax Event Redemption or a Termination Event, the Company shall deliver written notice to the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent. Upon the written request of the Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary, the Company shall inform such party whether or not a Tax Event, a Tax Event Redemption or a Termination Event has occurred. [SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE] 34
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, INCORPORATED as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact of the Holders from time to time of the Securities By: By: --------------------------------- ---------------------------------- Name: Name: Title: Title: Address for Notices: Address for Notices: Public Service Enterprise Group Wachovia Bank, National Association Incorporated 21 South Street 80 Park Plaza Morristown, New Jersey P.O. Box 1171 Attention: Corporate Trust Newark, New Jersey 07101 Administration Attention: Treasurer Telecopy: 973-682-4531 Telecopy: 973-596-6309 With a copy to: Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated 80 Park Plaza P.O. Box 1171 Newark, New Jersey 07101 Attention: Associate General Counsel Telecopy: 973-642-5033 35
THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and as Securities Intermediary By: ---------------------------------- Name: Title: Address for Notices: 101 Barclay Street Floor 8 West New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 36
EXHIBIT A INSTRUCTION FROM PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO COLLATERAL AGENT (Establishment of Treasury Units) The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street Floor 8 West New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 Re: Corporate Units of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I The securities account of The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, as pledgee of Wachovia Bank, National Association, as the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders" (the "Collateral Account") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.02[(a)][(b)][(c)] of the Pledge Agreement that the holder of securities named below (the "Holder") has elected to substitute $__________ Value of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of [Pledged Preferred Securities] [Pledged Notes] [Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests] relating to _________ Corporate Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account. A-1
We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary, upon confirmation that such Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned an equal Value of [Pledged Preferred Securities] [Pledged Notes] [Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests] in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Pledge Agreement. WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, Date:___________________ as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact of the Holders from time to time of the Securities By:_______________________________________ Name: Title: A-2
Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the [Pledged Preferred Securities] [Pledged Notes] [Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests]: _____________________________________ _____________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ Address _____________________________________ _____________________________________ A-3
EXHIBIT B INSTRUCTION FROM COLLATERAL AGENT TO SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY (Establishment of Treasury Units) The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street Floor 8 West New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 Re: Corporate Units of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust") The securities account of The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, as pledgee of Wachovia Bank, National Association, as the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders" (the "Collateral Account") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"), among the Company, you, as Securities Intermediary, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time, and the undersigned, as Collateral Agent. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Pledge Agreement. When you have confirmed that $__________ Value of Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto has been credited to the Collateral Account by or for the benefit of _________, as Holder of Corporate Units (the "Holder"), you are hereby instructed to release from the Collateral Account an equal Value of [Pledged Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Pledged Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Pledged Applicable Ownership Interests] relating to _____ Corporate Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent. THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Collateral Agent Dated:_______________ By:__________________________________ Name: Title: B-1
Please print name and address of Holder: _____________________________________ _____________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ Address _____________________________________ _____________________________________ B-2
EXHIBIT C INSTRUCTION FROM PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT TO COLLATERAL AGENT (Reestablishment of Corporate Units) The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street Floor 8 West New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 Re: ____________ Corporate Units of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and the undersigned, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.03[(a)][(b)][(c)] of the Pledge Agreement that the holder of securities listed below (the "Holder") has elected to substitute $ Value of [Preferred Securities or security entitlements thereto] [Notes or security entitlements thereto] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] in exchange for $__________ Value of Pledged Treasury Securities and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the holder has Transferred such [Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Collateral Account. We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary, upon confirmation that such [Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] have been credited to the Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned $__________ Value of Treasury Securities or security C-1
entitlements thereto related to _____ Corporate Units of such Holder in accordance with Section 5.03 of the Pledge Agreement. WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Purchase Contract Agent Dated:_______________ By:__________________________________ Name: Title: C-2
Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute [Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Pledged Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] for Pledged Treasury Securities: _____________________________________ _____________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ Address _____________________________________ _____________________________________ C-3
EXHIBIT D INSTRUCTION FROM COLLATERAL AGENT TO SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY (Reestablishment of Corporate Units) The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street Floor 8 West New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 Re: ___________ Treasury Units of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust") The securities account of The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities Intermediary and designated "The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, as pledgee of Wachovia Bank, National Association, as the Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders" (the "Collateral Account") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"), among the Company, you, as Securities Intermediary, Collateral Agent and Custodial Agent, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time, and the undersigned, as Collateral Agent. Capitalized terms used herein but no defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. When you have confirmed that $ __________ Value of [Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Notes or security entitlements with respect thereto] [Applicable Ownership Interests (as specified in clause (A) of the definition of such term) of the Treasury Portfolio] has been credited to the Collateral Account by or for the benefit of ________________, as Holder of Corporate Units (the "Holder"), you are hereby instructed to D-1
release from the Collateral Account $________________ Value of Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto by Transfer to the Purchase Contract Agent. THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Collateral Agent Dated:______________ By:_______________________________ Name: Title: _____________________________________ _____________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ Address _____________________________________ _____________________________________ D-2
EXHIBIT E NOTICE OF CASH SETTLEMENT FROM COLLATERAL AGENT TO PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT (Cash Settlement Amounts) WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 21 South Street Morristown, New Jersey 07960 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 973-682-4531 Re: __________ Corporate Units of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (the "Company") and PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust") Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"), by and among you, the Company, the undersigned, The Bank of New York, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined therein. In accordance with Section 5.05(d) of the Pledge Agreement, we hereby notify you that as of 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding November 16, 2005, we have received (i) $ _______________ in immediately available funds paid in an aggregate amount equal to the Purchase Price due to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date with respect to ________________ Corporate Units and (ii) $ ___________ in immediately available funds paid in an aggregate amount equal to the Purchase Price due to the Company on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date with respect to ______ Treasury Units. THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Collateral Agent Dated:_______________ By:_____________________________________ Name: Title: E-1
EXHIBIT F INSTRUCTION TO CUSTODIAL AGENT REGARDING REMARKETING The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street Floor 8 West New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 Re: Preferred Securities of PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust") The undersigned hereby notifies you in accordance with Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time, that the undersigned elects to deliver [$_____________ aggregate liquidation amount of Separate Preferred Securities] [$______________ aggregate principal amount of Separate Notes] for delivery to the Remarketing Agent on the Business Day immediately preceding the [Initial Remarketing Date] [Secondary Remarketing Date] for remarketing pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. The undersigned will, upon request of the Remarketing Agent, execute and deliver any additional documents deemed by the Remarketing Agent or by the Company to be necessary or desirable to complete the sale, assignment and transfer of the [Separate Preferred Securities] [Separate Notes] tendered hereby. Capitalized terms used herein but no defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. The undersigned hereby instructs you, upon receipt of the Proceeds of such remarketing from the Remarketing Agent to deliver such Proceeds to the undersigned in accordance with the instructions indicated herein under "A. Payment Instructions". The undersigned hereby instructs you, in the event of Failed Remarketing, upon receipt of the [Separate Preferred Securities] [Separate Notes] tendered herewith from the Remarketing Agent, to be delivered to the person(s) and the address(es) indicated herein under "B. Delivery Instructions." With this notice, the undersigned hereby (i) represents and warrants that the undersigned has full power and authority to tender, sell, assign and transfer the [Separate Preferred Securities] [Separate Notes] tendered hereby and that the undersigned is the record owner of any [Preferred Securities] [Notes] tendered herewith in physical form or a participant in The Depositary Trust Company ("DTC") and the beneficial owner of any [Preferred Securities] [Notes] tendered herewith by book-entry transfer to your account at DTC and (ii) agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. F-1
Date:_____________ _____________________________________ By:__________________________________ Name: Title: Signature Guarantee:_________________ _____________________________________ _____________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ Address _____________________________________ _____________________________________ F-2
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A. PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Proceeds of the remarketing should be paid by check in the name of the person(s) set forth below and mailed to the address set forth below. Name(s) ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please Print) Address ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please Print) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Zip Code) ________________________________________________________________________________ (Tax Identification or Social Security Number) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- B. DELIVERY INSTRUCTIONS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- In the event of a Failed Remarketing, [Preferred Securities] [Notes] which are in physical form should be delivered to the person(s) set forth below and mailed to the address set forth below. Name(s) ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please Print) Address ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please Print) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Zip Code) ________________________________________________________________________________ (Tax Identification or Social Security Number) In the event of a Failed Remarketing, [Preferred Securities] [Notes] which are in book-entry form should be credited to the account at The Depositary Trust Company set forth below. __________________ DTC Account Number Name of Account Party:_________________________________ F-3
EXHIBIT G INSTRUCTION TO CUSTODIAL AGENT REGARDING WITHDRAWAL FROM REMARKETING The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street Floor 8 West New York, New York 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telecopy: 212-815-7760 Re: Preferred Securities of PSEG Funding Trust I (the "Trust") The undersigned hereby notifies you in accordance with Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Pledge Agreement"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Corporate Units from time to time, that the undersigned elects to withdraw the [$_____ aggregate liquidation amount of Separate Preferred Securities] [$_________ aggregate principal amount of Separate Notes] delivered to the Custodial Agent on _________, 2005 for remarketing pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. The undersigned hereby instructs you to return such [Preferred Securities] [Notes] to the undersigned in accordance with the undersigned's instructions. With this notice, the Undersigned hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement. Date:_____________ _____________________________________ By:__________________________________ Name: Title: Signature Guarantee:_________________ _____________________________________ _____________________________________ Name Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification Number, if any _____________________________________ Address _____________________________________ _____________________________________ G-1

REMARKETING AGREEMENT REMARKETING AGREEMENT, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Agreement"), by and among Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, not individually but solely as Purchase Contract Agent (the "Purchase Contract Agent") and as attorney-in-fact of the holders of Purchase Contracts (as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined herein)), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "Remarketing Agent"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, the Company will issue $460,000,000 aggregate Stated Amount of its Participating Units (the "Participating Units") under the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, by and between the Purchase Contract Agent and the Company (the "Purchase Contract Agreement"); and WHEREAS, the Trust will issue concurrently, as part of the Participating Units, preferred securities (the "Preferred Securities") representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust in an aggregate liquidation amount equal to the aggregate Stated Amount of the Participating Units under the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002, by and among the Company, the Administrative Trustees, the Delaware Trustee and the Property Trustee (the "Declaration"); and WHEREAS, the Participating Units will initially consist of 9,200,000 units referred to as "Corporate Units," each of which will consist of a Preferred Security and a Purchase Contract; WHEREAS, the sole assets of the Trust, $474,226,850 aggregate principal amount of Senior Deferrable Notes due 2007 (the "Notes") of the Company, will be purchased by the Trust from the Company with the proceeds of the sale of the Preferred Securities and the proceeds of the sale to the Company of the common securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust; and WHEREAS, the Preferred Securities (or upon a dissolution of the Trust and the distribution of the Notes as described in the Declaration, such Notes) will be pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreement (the "Pledge Agreement"), dated as of September 10, 2002, by and among the Company, The Bank of New York, as collateral agent (the "Collateral Agent"), and the Purchase Contract Agent, to secure a Corporate Unit holder's obligations under the related Purchase Contract on the Purchase Contract Settlement Date; and WHEREAS, the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, of Corporate Unit holders and of the Preferred Security holders or Note holders electing to have their Preferred Securities or Notes remarketed will be remarketed by the Remarketing Agent on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date (the "Initial Remarketing Date"); and
WHEREAS, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, of the Preferred Security holders or Note holders electing to have their Preferred Securities or Notes remarketed and of the Corporate Unit holders who have elected not to settle the Purchase Contracts related to their Corporate Units by Cash Settlement will be remarketed by the Remarketing Agent on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date; and WHEREAS, in the event of a Successful Initial Remarketing, the applicable distribution rate on the Preferred Securities (or the interest rate on the Notes) will be reset on the Initial Remarketing Date, to the Reset Rate to be determined by the Reset Agent as the rate that such Preferred Securities (or such Notes) should bear in order for the aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities or the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to have an approximate aggregate market value of 100.25% of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, on the Initial Remarketing Date, provided that in the determination of such Reset Rate, the Company shall, if applicable, limit the Reset Rate to the maximum rate permitted by applicable law; and WHEREAS, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the applicable distribution rate on the Preferred Securities (or the interest rate on the Notes) that remain outstanding on and after the Initial Remarketing will be reset on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, to the Reset Rate to be determined by the Reset Agent as the rate that such Preferred Securities (and the Notes) should bear in order to have an approximate market value of 100.25% of the aggregate liquidation amount (plus deferred and unpaid distributions, if any) of the Preferred Securities or the aggregate principal amount (plus deferred and unpaid interest, if any) of the Notes on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, provided that in the determination of such Reset Rate, the Company shall, if applicable, limit the Reset Rate to the maximum rate permitted by applicable law; and WHEREAS, the Company has requested Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") to act as the Reset Agent and as the Remarketing Agent, and as such to perform the services described herein; and WHEREAS, Merrill Lynch is willing to act as Reset Agent and Remarketing Agent and as such to perform such duties on the terms and conditions expressly set forth herein; NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the covenants herein made, and subject to the conditions herein set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows: Section 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Agreement, in the recitals hereto or in the paragraph preceding such recitals shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Purchase Contract Agreement or, if not therein defined, the Pledge Agreement. Section 2. Appointment and Obligations of Remarketing Agent. (a) The Company hereby appoints Merrill Lynch and Merrill Lynch hereby accepts such appointment, (i) as the Reset Agent to determine in consultation with the Company (1) the Reset Rate that, in the 2
opinion of the Reset Agent, will, when applied to the Preferred Securities (or the Notes), enable the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, to have an approximate aggregate market value of 100.25% of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, as of the Initial Remarketing Date, and (2) in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Reset Rate that, in the opinion of the Reset Agent, will, when applied to the Preferred Securities or the Notes, enable a Preferred Security or a Note to have an approximate market value equal to the sum of 100.25% of its liquidation amount or principal amount, as the case may be, plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, thereon as of the third Business Day preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, provided, in each case, that the Company, by notice to the Reset Agent prior to the eighth Business Day preceding (x) the Initial Reset Date, in the case of the Initial Remarketing, or (y) the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of the Secondary Remarketing, shall, if applicable, limit the Reset Rate so that it does not exceed the maximum rate permitted by applicable law and (ii) as the exclusive Remarketing Agent (subject to the right of Merrill Lynch to appoint additional remarketing agents hereunder as described below) to, in the manner provided for herein, in the Declaration with respect to the Preferred Securities and in the Indenture with respect to the Notes, (1) remarket the Preferred Securities or Notes of the Preferred Security holders or Note holders electing to have their Preferred Securities or Notes remarketed and of the Corporate Unit holders on the Initial Remarketing Date, for settlement on the Initial Reset Date and (2) in the case of a Failed Initial Remarketing, remarket the Preferred Securities or Notes of the Preferred Security holders or Note holders electing to have their Preferred Securities or Notes remarketed or of the Corporate Unit holders who have failed to notify the Purchase Contract Agent, on or prior to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, of their intention to settle the related Purchase Contracts through Cash Settlement. In connection with the remarketing contemplated hereby, the Remarketing Agent will enter into a Supplemental Remarketing Agreement (the "Supplemental Remarketing Agreement") with the Company, the Trust and the Purchase Contract Agent, which shall either be (i) substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (with such changes as the Company, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent may agree upon, it being understood that changes may be necessary in the representations, warranties, covenants and other provisions of the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement due to changes in law or facts and circumstances or in the event that Merrill Lynch is not the sole remarketing agent, and with such further changes therein as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request), or (ii) in such other form as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request, subject to the approval of the Company and the Trust (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld). Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, Merrill Lynch shall not be obligated to act as Remarketing Agent or Reset Agent hereunder unless the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement is in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Merrill Lynch. The Company agrees that Merrill Lynch shall have the right, on 15 Business Days' notice to the Company, to appoint one or more additional remarketing agents so long as any such additional remarketing agents shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company. Upon any such appointment, the parties shall enter into an appropriate amendment to this Agreement to reflect the addition of any such remarketing agent. (b) Pursuant to the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, the Remarketing Agent, either as sole remarketing agent or as representative of a group of remarketing agents appointed as aforesaid, will agree, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and therein, to use its 3
reasonable efforts to (i) remarket, on the Initial Remarketing Date, the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, that the Custodial Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent shall have notified the Remarketing Agent have been tendered for, or otherwise are to be included in, the Initial Remarketing, at a price per Preferred Security or Note such that the aggregate price for the Preferred Securities or Notes comprising Corporate Units is approximately equal to the sum of 100.25% of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be and (ii) in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, remarket, on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, the Preferred Securities or Notes that the Custodial Agent and the Purchase Contract Agent shall have notified the Remarketing Agent have been tendered for, or otherwise are to be included in, the Secondary Remarketing, at a price that is approximately 100.25% of the aggregate liquidation amount of such Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of such Notes and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Remarketing Agent shall not remarket the Preferred Securities or Notes for a price that is less than the sum of 100% of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price, the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price, and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be (the "Minimum Initial Remarketing Price"), in the case of the Initial Remarketing, or the aggregate liquidation amount of such Preferred Securities or aggregate principal amount of such Notes and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, in the case of the Secondary Remarketing. After deducting the fee specified in Section 3 below, the proceeds of such Initial Remarketing or Secondary Remarketing, as the case may be, shall be paid to the Collateral Agent in accordance with Section 5.07 of the Pledge Agreement and Section 5.02 of the Purchase Contract Agreement (each of which Sections are incorporated herein by reference). The right of each holder of Preferred Securities, Notes or Corporate Units to have Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, tendered for the Initial Remarketing or the Secondary Remarketing, as the case may be, shall be limited to the extent that (i) the Remarketing Agent conducts an Initial Remarketing and, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, a Secondary Remarketing pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, (ii) Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, tendered have not been called for redemption, (iii) the Remarketing Agent is able to find a purchaser or purchasers for tendered Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, at a price of not less than the Minimum Initial Remarketing Price, in the case of the Initial Remarketing, and the sum of 100% of the liquidation amount or principal amount thereof and deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Preferred Securities or Notes, in the case of the Secondary Remarketing and (iv) such purchaser or purchasers deliver the purchase price therefor to the Remarketing Agent as and when required. (c) It is understood and agreed that neither the Remarketing Agent nor the Reset Agent shall have any obligation whatsoever to purchase any Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, whether in the Initial Remarketing, Secondary Remarketing or otherwise, and shall in no way be obligated to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, for remarketing or to otherwise expend or risk their own funds or incur or be exposed to financial liability in the performance of their respective duties under this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, and, without limitation of the foregoing, the 4
Remarketing Agent shall not be deemed an underwriter of the remarketed Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be. The Company shall not be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, for remarketing. Section 3. Fees. In the event of a Successful Initial Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent shall retain as a remarketing fee (the "Remarketing Fee") an amount not exceeding 25 basis points (0.25%) of the Minimum Initial Remarketing Price from any amount received in connection with such Initial Remarketing in excess of the Minimum Initial Remarketing Price. In the event of a Successful Secondary Remarketing, the Remarketing Agent shall retain as the Remarketing Fee an amount not exceeding 25 basis points (0.25%), of the principal amount of the remarketed Preferred Securities or Notes from any amount received in connection with such Secondary Remarketing in excess of the sum of the aggregate principal amount of such remarketed Preferred Securities or Notes plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, as the case may be. In addition, the Reset Agent shall, in either case, receive from the Company a reasonable and customary fee (the "Reset Agent Fee"); provided, however, that if the Remarketing Agent shall also act as the Reset Agent, then the Reset Agent shall not be entitled to receive any such Reset Agent Fee. Payment of such Reset Agent Fee shall be made by the Company on the Initial Remarketing Date, in the case of a Successful Initial Remarketing, or on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of a Successful Secondary Remarketing, in immediately available funds or, upon the instructions of the Reset Agent, by certified or official bank check or checks or by wire transfer. Section 4. Replacement and Resignation of Remarketing Agent. (a) The Company may in its absolute discretion replace Merrill Lynch as the Remarketing Agent and as the Reset Agent hereunder by giving notice prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time (i) on the eleventh Business Day immediately prior to the Initial Reset Date, or (ii) in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time on the eleventh Business Day immediately prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, provided, in either case, that the Company must replace Merrill Lynch both as Remarketing Agent and as Reset Agent unless Merrill Lynch shall otherwise agree. Any such replacement shall become effective upon the Company's appointment of a successor to perform the services that would otherwise be performed hereunder by the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent. Upon providing such notice, the Company shall use all reasonable efforts to appoint such a successor and to enter into a remarketing agreement with such successor as soon as reasonably practicable. The Company shall notify the Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent of the appointment of any such successor in writing. (b) Merrill Lynch may resign at any time and be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder as the Remarketing Agent and/or as the Reset Agent by giving notice prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time (i) on the eleventh Business Day immediately prior to May 16, 2005, or (ii) in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, on the eleventh Business Day immediately prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date. Any such resignation shall become effective upon the Company's appointment of a successor to perform the services that would otherwise be performed hereunder by the Remarketing Agent and/or the Reset Agent. Upon receiving notice from the Remarketing Agent and/or the Reset Agent that it wishes to resign hereunder, the Company shall appoint such a successor and enter into a remarketing agreement with it as soon as reasonably practicable. 5
Section 5. Dealing in the Securities. Each of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent, when acting hereunder or, in the case of the Remarketing Agent, under the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, or when acting in its individual or any other capacity, may, to the extent permitted by law, buy, sell, hold or deal in any of the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, Treasury Units, Corporate Units or any other securities of the Company. With respect to any Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, Treasury Units, Corporate Units or any other securities of the Company owned by it, each of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent may exercise any vote or join in any action with like effect as if it did not act in any capacity hereunder. Each of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent, in its individual capacity, either as principal or agent, may also engage in or have an interest in any financial or other transaction with the Company as freely as if it did not act in any capacity hereunder. The Company may, to the extent permitted by law, purchase any Preferred Securities or Notes that are remarketed by any Remarketing Agent. Section 6. Registration Statement and Prospectus. (a) In connection with the Initial Remarketing, if and to the extent required in the view of counsel (which need not be an opinion) for either the Remarketing Agent, the Company or the Trust by applicable law, regulations or interpretations in effect at the time of such Initial Remarketing, each of the Company and the Trust, as applicable (i) shall use its reasonable efforts to have a registration statement relating to the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act") prior to the third Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date, (ii) if requested by the Remarketing Agent shall furnish a current preliminary prospectus and, if applicable, a current preliminary prospectus supplement to be used by the Remarketing Agent in the Initial Remarketing not later than seven Business Days prior to the Initial Reset Date (or such earlier date as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request) and in such quantities as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request, and (iii) shall furnish a current final prospectus and, if applicable, a final prospectus supplement to be used by the Remarketing Agent in the Initial Remarketing not later than the third Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date in such quantities as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request, and shall pay all expenses relating thereto. (b) In the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing and in connection with the Secondary Remarketing, if and to the extent required in the view of counsel (which need not be an opinion) for either the Remarketing Agent, the Company or the Trust by applicable law, regulations or interpretations in effect at the time of such Secondary Remarketing, each of the Company and the Trust, as applicable (i) shall use its reasonable efforts to have a registration statement relating to the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, effective under the 1933 Act prior to the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, (ii) if requested by the Remarketing Agent, shall furnish a current preliminary prospectus and, if applicable, a current preliminary prospectus supplement to be used by the Remarketing Agent in the Secondary Remarketing not later than seven Business Days prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date (or such earlier date as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request) and in such quantities as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request, and (iii) shall furnish a current final prospectus and, if applicable, a final prospectus supplement to be used by the Remarketing Agent in the Secondary Remarketing not later than the third Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Contract Settlement Date in such quantities as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request, and shall pay all expenses relating thereto. 6
(c) If, in connection with the Initial Remarketing or, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, the Secondary Remarketing, it shall not be possible, in the view of counsel (which need not be an opinion) for either the Remarketing Agent, the Company or the Trust, under applicable law, regulations or interpretations in effect at the time of such Initial Remarketing or such Secondary Remarketing to either register the offer and sale by the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, of the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, under the 1933 Act or deliver a current prospectus meeting the requirements of Section (10)(a) of the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, as otherwise contemplated by this Section 6, the Company and the Trust, as the case may be (i) shall use reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all action and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper and advisable to permit and effectuate the offer and sale of the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, in connection with the Initial Remarketing or the Secondary Remarketing, as the case may be, without registration under the 1933 Act pursuant to an exemption therefrom, if available, including the exemption afforded by Rule l44A under the rules and regulations promulgated under the 1933 Act by the Securities and Exchange Commission, (ii) if requested by the Remarketing Agent shall furnish a current preliminary remarketing memorandum to be used by the Remarketing Agent in the Initial Remarketing or the Secondary Remarketing, as the case may be, not later than seven Business Days prior to the Initial Reset Date, in the case of the Initial Remarketing, or the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of the Secondary Remarketing (or in either case such earlier date as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request) and in such quantities as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request and (iii) shall furnish a current final remarketing memorandum to be used by the Remarketing Agent in the Initial Remarketing or the Secondary Remarketing, as the case may be, not later than the third Business Day immediately preceding the Initial Reset Date, in the case of the Initial Remarketing, or the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of the Secondary Remarketing, in such quantities as the Remarketing Agent may reasonably request, and shall pay all expenses relating thereto. (d) The Company or the Trust, as the case may be, shall also use its reasonable effort to take all such actions as may (upon advice of counsel to the Company, the Trust or the Remarketing Agent) be necessary or desirable under state securities or blue sky laws in connection with the Initial Remarketing and the Secondary Remarketing. Section 7. Conditions to the Remarketing Agent's Obligations. (a) The obligations of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent under this Agreement and, in the case of the Remarketing Agent, the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, including, without limitation, the following conditions: (i) the Preferred Securities or the Notes tendered for, or otherwise to be included in the Initial Remarketing or Secondary Remarketing, as the case may be, have not been called for redemption, (ii) the Remarketing Agent is able to find a purchaser or purchasers for tendered Preferred Securities or Notes (1) in the case of the Initial Remarketing, at a price not less than Minimum Initial Remarketing Price, and (2) in the case of the Secondary Remarketing, at a price per Preferred Security not less than 100% of the liquidation amount thereof plus deferred and unpaid distributions, if any thereon, or at a price per Note not less than 100% of the principal amount thereof plus deferred and unpaid interest, if any, thereon, (iii) the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary, the Company, the Trust, the Indenture Trustee and the Property Trustee shall have performed 7
their respective obligations in connection with the Initial Remarketing and, in the event of a Failed Initial Remarketing, in connection with the Secondary Remarketing, in each case pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Indenture, the Declaration, this Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement (including, without limitation, the Quotation Agent giving the Remarketing Agent notice of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price and the Separate Preferred Securities or Notes Purchase Price no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the fourth Business Day prior to the Initial Reset Date, in the case of the Initial Remarketing, and the Purchase Contract Agent giving the Remarketing Agent notice of the aggregate liquidation amount or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Preferred Securities or Notes to be remarketed, no later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the fourth Business Day prior to the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of the Secondary Remarketing, and, in each case, the Collateral Agent and the Custodial Agent concurrently delivering the Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, to be remarketed to the Remarketing Agent), (iv) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (v) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company included and incorporated by reference in this Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement or in certificates of any officer of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions included or incorporated by reference in this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, (vi) the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations included and incorporated by reference in this Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, and (vii) the satisfaction of the other conditions set forth and incorporated by reference in this Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement. (b) If at any time during the term of this Agreement, any Event of Default or event that with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would become an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under the Indenture, then the obligations and duties of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent under this Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement shall be suspended until such default or event has been cured. The Company will promptly give the Remarketing Agent notice of all such defaults and events of which the Company is aware. Section 8. Termination of Remarketing Agreement. This Agreement shall terminate as to any Remarketing Agent or Reset Agent that is replaced on the effective date of its replacement pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof or pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof. Notwithstanding any such termination, the obligations set forth in Section 3 hereof shall survive and remain in full force and effect until all amounts payable under said Section 3 shall have been paid in full; provided, however, that if any Reset Agent resigns prior to a successful remarketing, then the obligations set forth in Section 3 hereof shall not survive the termination of this Agreement and no fee shall be payable to such Reset Agent in such capacity. In addition, each former Remarketing Agent and Reset Agent shall be entitled to the rights and benefits under Section 10 of this Agreement, notwithstanding the replacement or resignation of such Remarketing Agent or Reset Agent. Section 9. Remarketing Agent's Performance; Duty of Care. The duties and obligations of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Agreement and, in the case of the Remarketing Agent, the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement. No implied covenants or obligations of or against the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent shall be read into this Agreement or the Supplemental 8
Remarketing Agreement. In the absence of bad faith on the part of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent, as the case may be, the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent each may conclusively rely upon any document furnished to it which purports to conform to the requirements of this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, as the case may be, as to the truth of the statements expressed therein. Each of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent shall be protected in acting upon any document or communication reasonably believed by it to be signed, presented or made by the proper party or parties. Neither the Remarketing Agent nor the Reset Agent shall have any obligation to determine whether there is any limitation under applicable law on the Reset Rate on the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, or, if there is any such limitation, the maximum permissible Reset Rate on the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, and they shall rely solely upon written notice from the Company (which the Company agrees to provide on or prior to the eighth Business Day before the Initial Reset Date, in the case of the Initial Remarketing, and prior to the tenth Business Day before Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of the Secondary Remarketing) as to whether or not there is any such limitation and, if so, the maximum permissible Reset Rate. Neither the Remarketing Agent nor the Reset Agent shall incur any liability under this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement to any beneficial owner or holder of Preferred Securities or Notes, or other securities, either in its individual capacity or as Remarketing Agent or Reset Agent, as the case may be, for any action or failure to act in connection with the Remarketing or otherwise in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, except to the extent that it shall have been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment that such liability has resulted from the willful misconduct, bad faith or gross negligence of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent or by their failure to fulfill in any material respect their express obligations hereunder or, in the case of the Remarketing Agent, under the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement. The provisions of this Section 9 shall survive any termination of this Agreement and shall also continue to apply to every Remarketing Agent and Reset Agent notwithstanding their resignation or removal. Section 10. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company and the Trust, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Remarketing Agent, the Reset Agent and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act, or Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act") (the Remarketing Agent, the Reset Agent and each such person or entity being an "Agent Indemnified Party"), as follows: (i) from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses whatsoever, joint or several, as incurred, to which such Agent Indemnified Party may become subject under any applicable federal or state law, or otherwise, and related to, arising out of, or based on (A) the failure to have an effective Registration Statement (as defined in the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement) under the 1933 Act relating to the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, if required, or the failure to satisfy the prospectus delivery requirements of the 1933 Act because the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, failed to provide the Remarketing Agent with a Prospectus (as defined in the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement) for delivery, or (B) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the 9
Registration Statement or any amendment thereto (including any information deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement at the time it became effective pursuant to paragraph (b) of Rule 430A under the 1933 Act, if applicable), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or (C) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (D) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary remarketing memorandum or any final remarketing memorandum, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light or the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (E) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any other information (whether oral or written) or documents (including, without limitation, any documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in any such information or documents) provided by the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, for use in connection with the remarketing of the Notes or the Preferred Securities, as the case may be, or any of the transactions related thereto, or (F) any breach by the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, of any of the representations, warranties or agreements included or incorporated by reference in this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, or (G) any failure by the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, to make or consummate the remarketing of the Notes or the Preferred Securities, as the case may be, (including, without limitation, any Failed Initial Remarketing or Failed Secondary Remarketing) or the withdrawal, recession, termination, amendment or extension of the terms of such remarketing, or (H) any failure on the part of the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, to comply, or any breach by the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, of, any of the provisions included or incorporated by reference in this Agreement, the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Corporate Units, the Treasury Units, the Pledge Agreement, the Indenture, the Declaration, the Preferred Securities or the Notes (collectively, the "Operative Documents") or (I) the Remarketing of the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be, or any other transaction contemplated by any of the Operative Documents, or the engagement of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent pursuant to, or the performance by the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent of the respective services contemplated by, this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, whether or not the Initial Remarketing or the Secondary Remarketing or the reset of the rate on the Preferred Securities or Notes as contemplated herein actually occur; (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever related to, arising out of or based on any matter described in (i) above; and 10
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by Merrill Lynch), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever related to, arising out or based on any matter described in (i) above, whether or not such Agent Indemnified Party is a party and whether or not such claim, action or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of the Company or the Trust, as the case may be, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above; provided, however, that the Company and the Trust shall not be liable under clause (i) (B), (i) (C), (i) (D) or (i) (E) to the extent any such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense arises out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and conformity with written information furnished to the Company and the Trust by the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any preliminary or final remarketing memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any other documents used in connection with remarketing of the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be; provided, further, that with respect to any untrue statement or omission of a material fact made in any preliminary prospectus, the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 10(a) shall not inure to the benefit of the Remarketing Agent to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability of the Remarketing Agent occurs under the circumstance where (w) the Company or the Trust had previously furnished copies of the Prospectus to Merrill Lynch, (x) the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission of a material fact contained in the preliminary prospectus was corrected in the Prospectus, and (y) there was not sent or given to such person, at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of Preferred Securities or Notes, as the case may be, to such person, a copy of the Prospectus and the delivery thereof would have constituted a complete defense to such person's claim in respect of such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission; provided, further, that the Company and the Trust shall not be liable under clause (i)(G) or (i)(I) to the extent that such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense has, by final judicial determination, resulted from the willful misconduct, bad faith or gross negligence of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent or by their failure to fulfill, in any material respect, their express obligations hereunder or, in the case of the Remarketing Agent, under the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement. Other than as set forth in Section 10(b) below, the Company and the Trust agree that no Agent Indemnified Party shall have any liability (whether direct or indirect, in contract or tort or otherwise) to the Company or the Trust or their respective security holders or creditors relating to or arising out of the engagement of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent pursuant to, or the performance by the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent of their respective services contemplated by, this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement except to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense is found in a final judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent, as the case may be. The Company and the Trust agree that, without Merrill Lynch's prior written consent, it will not settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to 11
any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any action or claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 10(a) (whether or not Merrill Lynch or any other Agent Indemnified Party is an actual or potential party to such claim, action or proceeding), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each Agent Indemnified Party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding, action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an Agent Indemnified Party. (b) The Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent, severally and not jointly, agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors and its officers who sign the Registration Statement, the Trust, each of the Trustees who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company or the Trust within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act (the "Company and Trust Indemnified Parties") to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company or the Trust to the Agent Indemnified Parties, but only with reference to information relating to such Remarketing Agent and Reset Agent furnished to the Company and the Trust in writing by such Remarketing Agent and Reset Agent expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto or any other documents used in connection with the Remarketing of the Preferred Securities or the Notes, as the case may be. Each of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent agrees that, without the Company's and the Trust's prior written consent, it will not settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any action or claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 10(b) (whether or not the Company or the Trust or any other Company and Trust Indemnified Party is an actual or potential party to such claim, action or proceeding), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each Company and Trust Indemnified Party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding, action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of a Company and Trust Indemnified Party. (c) If the indemnification provided for in Section 10(a) or 10(b) hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless any party seeking indemnification thereunder (an "Indemnified Party") in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then the Company and the Trust, on the one hand, and the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent on the other hand, shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such Indemnified Party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Trust on the one hand and the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent on the other hand from the remarketing of the Preferred Securities or the Notes contemplated hereby or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Trust on the one hand and of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent on the other hand in connection with the statements, omissions or 12
other matters which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Trust on the one hand and the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent on the other hand in connection with the remarketing of the Preferred Securities and the Notes contemplated hereby shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities or the aggregate principal amount of the Notes which are or are to be remarketed bears to the aggregate fees actually received by the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent under Section 3 hereof. The relative fault of the Company and the Trust on the one hand and the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent on the other hand (i) in the case of an untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Trust on the one hand or by the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent on the other hand and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission and (ii) in the case of any other action or omission shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether such action or omission was taken or omitted to be taken by the Company or the Trust on the one hand, or by the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to prevent or correct such action or omission. The Company, the Trust, the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 10(c) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 10(c). The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an Indemnified Party and referred to above in this Section 10(c) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or any such omission or alleged omission or any other such action or omission; provided, however, that to the extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent be required to contribute any amount which, in the aggregate, exceeds the aggregate fees received by them under Section 3 of this Agreement. No investigation or failure to investigate by any Indemnified Party shall impair the foregoing indemnification and contribution agreement or any rights an Indemnified Party may have. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. (d) Promptly after receipt by any Indemnified Party of written notice of any claim or commencement of an action or proceeding with respect to which indemnification may be sought hereunder, such party will notify the party from whom indemnification is sought (the "Indemnifying Party") in writing of such claim or of the commencement of such action or proceeding, but failure to so notify the Indemnifying Party will not relieve the Indemnifying Party from any liability which it may have to such party seeking indemnification under this indemnification and contribution agreement, and in any event will not relieve the Indemnifying Party from any other liability that it may have to such party. The Indemnified Party (or Merrill Lynch in the case of any Agent Indemnified Party) shall have the right to select counsel in connection with any transaction for which any Indemnified Party may be entitled to 13
indemnification or contribution hereunder, provided that in no event shall the Indemnifying Parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel, for all Indemnified Parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. (e) Anything herein or in the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the provisions of this Section 10, and the rights of the Company, the Trust, the Remarketing Agent, the Reset Agent and the other Indemnified Parties hereunder, shall be in addition to, and not in limitation of, any rights or benefits (including, without limitation, rights to indemnification or contribution) which the Company, the Trust, the Remarketing Agent, the Reset Agent or any other Indemnified Party may have under any other instrument or agreement. Section 11. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to principles of conflicts of laws that would require the application of the law of any other jurisdiction. Section 12. Term of Agreement. (a) Unless otherwise terminated in accordance with the provisions hereof and except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from the date hereof until the first day thereafter on which no Preferred Securities or Notes are outstanding, or, if earlier, the Business Day immediately following the Initial Reset Date, in the case of a Successful Initial Remarketing, or the Business Day immediately following the Purchase Contract Settlement Date, in the case of a Successful Secondary Remarketing. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the provisions of Section 8 hereof and the provisions of Sections 3, 9, 10 and 12(b) hereof shall survive any termination of this Agreement and remain in full force and effect; provided, however, that if any Reset Agent resigns prior to a successful remarketing, then the obligations set forth in Section 3 hereof shall not survive the termination of this Agreement and no fee shall be payable to such Reset Agent in such capacity. (b) All representations and warranties included or incorporated by reference in this Agreement, or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, or contained in certificates of officers of the Company submitted pursuant hereto or thereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Remarketing Agent, the Reset Agent or any of their controlling persons, or by or on behalf of the Company or the Purchase Contract Agent, and shall survive the remarketing of the Preferred Securities or the Notes. Section 13. Successors and Assigns. Except in the case of a succession pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement, the rights and obligations of the Company and the Purchase Contract Agent (both in its capacity as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact) hereunder may not be assigned or delegated to any other person without the prior written consent of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld and, except with respect to the Purchase Contract Agent, in connection with the appointment of a successor thereof pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement. The rights and obligations of the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent hereunder may not be assigned or delegated to any other person without the prior written consent of the Company or the Trust, except that the Remarketing Agent shall have the right to appoint additional remarketing agents 14
as provided herein. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent and their respective successors and assigns and the other Indemnified Parties (as defined in Section 10 hereof) and the successors, assigns, heirs and legal representatives of the Indemnified Parties. The terms "successors" and "assigns" shall not include any purchaser of Preferred Securities or Preferred Securities merely because of such purchase. Section 14. Headings. Section headings have been inserted in this Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement as a matter of convenience of reference only, and it is agreed that such section headings are not a part of this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement and will not be used in the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement. Section 15. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any or all jurisdictions because it conflicts with any provisions of any constitution, statute, rule or public policy or for any other reason, then, to the extent permitted by law, such circumstances shall not have the effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, inoperative or unenforceable in any other case, circumstances or jurisdiction, or of rendering any other provision or provisions of this Agreement or the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, as the case may be, invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any extent whatsoever. Section 16. Counterparts. This Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be regarded as an original and all of which shall constitute one and the same document. Section 17. Amendments. This Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement may be amended by any instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto. The Company, the Trust and the Purchase Contract Agent (except with respect to the Indenture and the Preferred Securities, to which it is not a party) agree that they will not enter into, cause or permit any amendment or modification of the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Indenture, the Declaration, the Pledge Agreement, the Preferred Securities, the Notes, the Participating Units or any other instruments or agreements relating to the Preferred Securities or Notes or the Participating Units which would adversely affect the rights, duties or obligations of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent without the prior written consent of the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent, as the case may be. Section 18. Notices. Unless otherwise specified, any notices, requests, consents or other communications given or made hereunder or pursuant hereto shall be made in writing or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication, including telephone or telecopy, and confirmed in writing. All written notices and confirmations of notices by telecommunication shall be deemed to have been validly given or made when delivered or mailed, registered or certified mail, return receipt requested and postage prepaid. All such notices, requests, consents or other communications shall be addressed as follows: if to the Company, to Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101 Attention: Treasurer, with a copy to Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll, LLP, 1735 Market 15
Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103-7599 Attention: Robert C. Gerlach; if to the Remarketing Agent or Reset Agent, to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, at 4 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10080, Attention: John Lynch, with a copy to Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019 Attention: Howard G. Godwin, Jr.; and if to the Purchase Contract Agent, to Wachovia Bank, National Association, 21 South Street, Morristown, New Jersey 07960, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or to such other address as any of the above shall specify to the other in writing. Section 19. Information. The Company and Trust agree to furnish the Remarketing Agent and the Reset Agent with such information and documents as the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent may reasonably request in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Remarketing Agreement and the Supplemental Remarketing Agreement, and make reasonably available to the Remarketing Agent, the Reset Agent and any accountant, attorney or other advisor retained by the Remarketing Agent or the Reset Agent such information that parties would customarily require in connection with a due diligence investigation conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws and cause the Company's officers, directors, employees and accountants to participate in all such discussions and to supply all such information reasonably requested by any such person in connection with such investigation. 16
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Company, the Trust, the Purchase Contract Agent and the Remarketing Agent has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name and on its behalf by one of its duly authorized signatories as of the date first above written. PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED By: ----------------------------------------- Name: Title: PSEG FUNDING TRUST I By: ----------------------------------------- Name: Title: CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED: MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: WACHOVIA BANK, not individually but solely as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of the Purchase Contracts By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: 17
Exhibit A to Remarketing Agreement Form of Supplemental Remarketing Agreement Supplemental Remarketing Agreement dated ______________, ____ among Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "Remarketing Agent"), and Wachovia Bank, a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as Purchase Contract Agent and attorney-in-fact for the Holders of the Purchase Contracts (as such terms are defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement referred to in Schedule I hereto). NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the covenants herein made, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: B. 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Remarketing Agreement dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Remarketing Agreement") among the Company, the Trust, the Purchase Contract Agent and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or, if not defined in the Remarketing Agreement, the meanings assigned to them in the Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined in Schedule I hereto). 2. Registration Statement and Prospectus. [IN THE EVENT THAT A REGISTRATION STATEMENT IS REQUIRED, INSERT THE FOLLOWING: The Company and the Trust have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and there has become effective, a registration statement on Form S-3, including a prospectus, relating to the Securities (as such term is defined on Schedule I hereto). Such Registration Statement, as amended, and including the information deemed to be a part thereof pursuant to Rule 430A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, are hereinafter called, collectively, the "Registration Statement"; (the related preliminary prospectus dated ____________, including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, [and preliminary prospectus supplemented dated __________] are hereinafter called, [collectively] the "preliminary prospectus";] and the related prospectus dated _____________, including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, [and prospectus supplement dated _________] are hereinafter called, [collectively,] the "Prospectus." The Company and the Trust, as the case may be, have provided copies of the Registration Statement [, the preliminary prospectus] and the Prospectus to the Remarketing Agent, and hereby consents to the use of the [preliminary prospectus] and the Prospectus in connection with the remarketing of the Securities.] [IN THE EVENT THAT A REGISTRATION STATEMENT IS NOT POSSIBLE OR NOT REQUIRED, INSERT THE FOLLOWING: The Company and the Trust have provided to the Remarketing Agent, for use in connection with remarketing of the Securities (as such term is defined on Schedule I hereto), a [preliminary remarketing memorandum and] remarketing memorandum and [describe other materials, if any]. Such remarketing memorandum 18
(including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein, [and] [describe other materials] are hereinafter called, collectively, the "Prospectus," [and such preliminary marketing memorandum (including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) is hereinafter called a "preliminary prospectus")]. The Company and the Trust each hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus [and the preliminary prospectus] in connection with the remarketing of the Securities]. All references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the [Registration Statement] [the preliminary prospectus] or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), which is incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the [Registration Statement] [the preliminary prospectus] or the Prospectus, as the case may be. 3. Provisions Incorporated by Reference. (a) Subject to Section 3(b), the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement (other than Section 2, Section 4, Section 6, Section 7, Section 8, Section 9 and Section 10 thereof) are incorporated herein by reference, mutatis mutandis, and the Company and the Trust, as the case may be, hereby make the representations and warranties, and agrees to comply with the covenants and obligations, set forth in the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement incorporated by reference herein, as modified by the provisions of Section 3(b) hereof. (b) With respect to the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement incorporated herein, for the purposes hereof, (i) all references therein to the "Underwriter" or "Underwriters" shall be deemed to refer to the Remarketing Agent and all references to the "Representative" or the "Representatives" shall be deemed to refer to the Remarketing Agent; (ii) all references therein to the "Securities" or "Initial Securities" shall be deemed to refer to the Securities as defined herein; (iii) all references therein to the "Closing Time" shall be deemed to refer to the Remarketing Closing Date specified in Schedule I hereto; (iv) all references therein to the ["Registration Statement"] [the "preliminary prospectus"] or the "Prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to the [Registration Statement] [the preliminary prospectus] and the Prospectus, respectively, as defined herein; (v) all references therein to this "Agreement," the "Underwriting Agreement," "hereof," "herein" and all references of similar import, shall be deemed to mean and refer to this Supplemental Remarketing Agreement; (vi) all references therein to "the date hereof," "the date of this Agreement" and all similar references shall be deemed to refer to the date of this Supplemental Remarketing Agreement; (vii) all references therein to any "Date of Delivery" shall be disregarded; and (viii) [other changes, including changes relating to the offer and sale of the Securities in connection with the Remarketing without registration under the 1933 Act in reliance upon an exemption therefrom (including the exemption afforded by Rule 144A)].] 4. Remarketing. Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth or incorporated by reference herein and in the Remarketing Agreement, the Remarketing Agent agrees to use its reasonable efforts to remarket, in the manner set forth in Section 2(b) of the Remarketing Agreement, the aggregate liquidation amount or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of Securities set forth in Schedule I hereto at a purchase price not less than 100% of the [Minimum Initial Remarketing Price] [aggregate liquidation amount of the Preferred Securities or the principal amount of the Notes 19
plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, on the Securities]. In connection therewith, the registered holder or holders thereof agree, in the manner specified in Section 5 hereof, to pay to the Remarketing Agent a Remarketing Fee equal to an amount not exceeding 25 basis points (0.25%) of [the Minimum Initial Remarketing Price] [such aggregate liquidation amount or aggregate principal amount of the Securities plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, thereon, as the case may be,] payable by deduction from any amount received in connection from such [Initial] [Secondary] Remarketing in excess of the [Minimum Initial Remarketing Price] [aggregate liquidation amount or aggregate principal amount of the Securities plus deferred and unpaid distributions or interest, if any, thereon, as the case may be]. The right of each holder of Securities to have Securities tendered for purchase shall be limited to the extent set forth in the last sentence of Section 2(b) of the Remarketing Agreement (which is incorporated by reference herein). As more fully provided in Section 2 (c) of the Remarketing Agreement (which is incorporated by reference herein), the Remarketing Agent is not obligated to purchase any Securities in the remarketing or otherwise, and neither the Company nor the Remarketing Agent shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon tender of Securities for remarketing. 5. Delivery and Payment. Delivery of payment for the remarketed Securities by the purchasers thereof identified by the Remarketing Agent and payment of the Remarketing Fee shall be made on the Remarketing Closing Date at the location and time specified in Schedule I hereto (or such later date not later than five Business Days after such date as the Remarketing Agent shall designate), which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Remarketing Agent, the Trust and the Company. Delivery of the remarketed Securities and payment of the Remarketing Fee shall be made to the Remarketing Agent against payment by the respective purchasers of the remarketed Securities of the consideration therefor as specified herein, which consideration shall be paid to the Collateral Agent for the account of the persons entitled thereto by certified or official bank check or checks drawn on or by a New York Clearing House bank and payable in immediately available funds or in immediately available funds by wire transfer to an account or accounts designated by the Collateral Agent. If the Securities are not represented by a Global Security held by or on behalf of The Depository Trust Company, certificates for the Securities shall be registered in such names and denominations as the Remarketing Agent may request not less than one full Business Day in advance of the Remarketing Closing Date, and the Company, the Trust, the Collateral Agent and the registered holder or holders thereof agree to have such certificates available for inspection, packaging and checking by the Remarketing Agent in New York, New York not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day prior to the Remarketing Closing Date. 6. Notices. Unless otherwise specified, any notices, requests, consents or other communications given or made hereunder or pursuant hereto shall be made in writing or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication, including telephone or telecopy, and confirmed in writing. All written notices and confirmations of notices by telecommunication shall be deemed to have been validly given or made when delivered or mailed, registered or certified mail, return receipt requested and postage prepaid. All such notices, requests, consents or other communications shall be addressed as follows: if to the Company, to Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101 Attention: Treasurer, with a copy to Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll, LLP, 1735 Market 20
Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103-7599 Attention: Robert C. Gerlach; if to the Trust, to PSEG Funding Trust I, 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101, Attention: Treasurer; if to the Remarketing Agent or Reset Agent, to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, at 4 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10080, Attention: John Lynch, with a copy to Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019 Attention: Howard G. Godwin, Jr.; and if to the Purchase Contract Agent, to Wachovia Bank, National Association, at 21 South Street, Morristown, New Jersey 07960, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or to such other address as any of the above shall specify to the other in writing. 7. Conditions to Obligations of Remarketing Agent. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the parties hereto agree (and the holders and beneficial owners of the Securities will be deemed to agree) that the obligations of the Remarketing Agent under this Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement are subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 7 of the Remarketing Agreement (which are incorporated herein by reference), and to the satisfaction, on the Remarketing Closing Date, of the conditions incorporated by reference herein from Section 5 of the Underwriting Agreement as modified by Section 3(b) hereof (including, without limitation, the delivery of opinions of counsel, officers' certificates and accountants' comfort letters in form and substance satisfactory to the Remarketing Agent, the accuracy as of the Remarketing Closing Date of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Trust included and incorporated by reference herein and the performance by the Company and the Trust of their obligations under the Remarketing Agreement and this Agreement as and when required hereby and thereby). In addition, anything herein or in the Remarketing Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Remarketing Agreement and this Agreement may be terminated by the Remarketing Agent, by notice to the Company and the Trust at any time prior to the time of settlement on the Remarketing Closing Date, if any of the events or conditions set forth in Section 9 of the Underwriting Agreement, as modified by Section 3(b) hereof, shall have occurred or shall exist. 8. Indemnity and Contribution. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Remarketing Agent shall be entitled to indemnity and contribution on the terms and conditions set forth in the Remarketing Agreement. 21
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company, the Trust and the Remarketing Agent. Very truly yours, PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED By: ----------------------------------------- Name: Title: PSEG FUNDING TRUST I By: ----------------------------------------- Name: Title: CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED: MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED By: ----------------------------------- Name: Title: [Add other Remarketing Agents, if any] WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION not individually but solely as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of the Purchase Contracts By: ----------------------------------- Name: Title: 22
SCHEDULE I Securities subject to remarketing: ($460,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of 6.25% Preferred Securities of PSEG Funding Trust I) ($460,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.25% Senior Deferrable Notes of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated). Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "Purchase Contract Agreement") by and between Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a banking association organized under the laws of the United States. [Minimum Initial Remarketing Price] [Aggregate Liquidation Amount or Aggregate Principal Amount of Securities: $_________________] Remarketing Closing Date, Time and Location: 23

Exhibit 5.1 September 10, 2002 Public Service Enterprise Group 80 Park Plaza, T-4 Newark, New Jersey 07102 Ladies and Gentlemen: I am Associate General Counsel of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), and I am rendering this opinion in connection with the issuance by the Company and PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), of an aggregate of 9,200,000 Participating Units. Each Participating Unit will initially consist of (1) a unit (referred to as a "Corporate Unit") comprised of (a) a stock purchase contract (the "Purchase Contract") under which the holder is obligated to purchase from the Company on November 16, 2005, a number of shares of common stock, no par value, of the Company (the "Common Stock") equal to the Settlement Rate (as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) and (b) beneficial ownership of a 6.25% Preferred Trust Security (each, a Preferred Trust Security and collectively, the Preferred Trust Securities) of the Trust, having a liquidation amount of $50. The assets of the Trust will consist of 6.25% Senior Deferrable Notes Due 2007 (the "Notes") to be issued under the indenture dated as of November 1, 1998 between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), as Trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of September 10, 2002 (together, the "Indenture"). The Participating Units are to be issued pursuant to a Registration Statement (the "Registration Statement") on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-86372 and 333-86372-01), relating to $1,500,000,000 aggregate initial public offering price of the Company's common stock, preferred stock, purchase contracts, stock purchase units, debt securities, preferred securities guarantee and the Notes, and the Trust's Preferred Trust Securities. I have examined such documents and records and made such investigation as I deemed appropriate or necessary, including examining the Indenture and the Purchase Contract Agreement.
Public Service Enterprise Group September 10, 2002 Page Two Based upon the foregoing, subject to the limitations set forth herein and having regard for such legal considerations as I deem relevant, I am of the opinion that: (1) Assuming the due authentication thereof by the Trustee, the Notes constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms. (2) Assuming the due authentication thereof by the Purchase Contract Agent, the Purchase Contracts constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms. My opinions set forth in Paragraphs 1 and 2 above are subject to the effects of (1) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights in general and the rights of creditors generally and (2) general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). This opinion is confined to and is given on the basis of the laws of the State of New Jersey as they exist on the date hereof. With respect to the laws of the State of New York, I have relied on all matters governed by such laws upon the opinion of Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll, LLP. I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, I do not admit that I am within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Very truly yours, James T. Foran Associate General Counsel

Exhibit 5.2 [LETTERHEAD OF RICHARDS, LAYTON & FINGER, P.A.] September 10, 2002 PSEG Funding Trust I c/o Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated 80 Park Plaza Newark, NJ 07101-1171 Re: PSEG Funding Trust I Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as special Delaware counsel for Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), and PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), in connection with the matters set forth herein. At your request, this opinion is being furnished to you. For purposes of giving the opinions hereinafter set forth, our examination of documents has been limited to the examination of originals or copies of the following: (a) The Certificate of Trust of the Trust, dated as of March 18, 2002, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Secretary of State") on March 18, 2002, as amended by the Certificate of Amendment thereto, dated July 29, 2002, as filed in the office of the Secretary of State on July 29, 2002 (as so amended, the "Certificate"); (b) The Trust Agreement of the Trust, dated as of March 18, 2002, among the Company, as depositor, and the trustees of the Trust named therein; (c) The Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Trust, dated as of September 10, 2002 (including Exhibits A, B and C thereto) (the "Trust Agreement"), among the Company, as depositor, the trustees of the Trust named therein, and the holders, from time to time, of undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust;
PSEG Funding Trust I September 10, 2002 Page 2 (d) The Prospectus, dated July 3, 2002, and the Prospectus Supplement, dated September 5, 2002 (jointly, the "Prospectus"), relating to the 6.25% Preferred Trust Securities, representing preferred undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust (each, a "Preferred Trust Security" and collectively, the "Preferred Trust Securities"); and (e) A Certificate of Good Standing for the Trust, dated September 9, 2002, obtained from the Secretary of State. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined are used as defined in the Trust Agreement. For purposes of this opinion, we have not reviewed any documents other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) above. In particular, we have not reviewed any document (other than the documents listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) above) that is referred to in or incorporated by reference into the documents reviewed by us. We have assumed that there exists no provision in any document that we have not reviewed that is inconsistent with the opinions stated herein. We have conducted no independent factual investigation of our own but rather have relied solely upon the foregoing documents, the statements and information set forth therein and the additional matters recited or assumed herein, all of which we have assumed to be true, complete and accurate in all material respects. With respect to all documents examined by us, we have assumed (i) the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as authentic originals, (ii) the conformity with the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies or forms, and (iii) the genuineness of all signatures. For purposes of this opinion, we have assumed (i) that the Trust Agreement and the Certificate are in full force and effect and have not been amended, (ii) except to the extent provided in paragraph 1 below, that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has been duly created, organized or formed, as the case may be, and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction governing its creation, organization or formation, (iii) the legal capacity of natural persons who are parties to the documents examined by us, (iv) that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has the power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, such documents, (v) that each of the parties to the documents examined by us has duly authorized, executed and delivered such documents, (vi) the receipt by each Person to whom a Preferred Security was issued by the Trust (collectively, the "Preferred Security Holders") of a Preferred Securities Certificate for such Preferred Security and the payment for the Preferred Security acquired by it, in accordance with the Trust Agreement and the Prospectus, and (vii) that the Preferred Securities were issued and sold to the Preferred Security Holders in accordance with the Trust Agreement and the Prospectus. We
PSEG Funding Trust I September 10, 2002 Page 3 have not participated in the preparation of the Prospectus and assume no responsibility for its contents. This opinion is limited to the laws of the State of Delaware (excluding the securities laws of the State of Delaware), and we have not considered and express no opinion on the laws of any other jurisdiction, including federal laws and rules and regulations relating thereto. Our opinions are rendered only with respect to Delaware laws and rules, regulations and orders thereunder that are currently in effect. Based upon the foregoing, and upon our examination of such questions of law and statutes of the State of Delaware as we have considered necessary or appropriate, and subject to the assumptions, qualifications, limitations and exceptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that: 1. The Trust has been duly created and is validly existing in good standing as a statutory trust under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. 2. The Preferred Securities represent valid and, subject to the qualifications set forth in paragraph 3 below, fully paid and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. 3. The Preferred Security Holders, as beneficial owners of the Trust, are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. We note that the Preferred Security Holders may be obligated to make payments as set forth in the Trust Agreement. We consent to the filing of this opinion with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K being filed on or about the date hereof. In giving the foregoing consent, we do not thereby admit that we come within the category of Persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. Except as stated above, without our prior written consent, this opinion may not be furnished or quoted to, or relied upon by, any other Person for any purpose. Very truly yours, /s/ Richards, Layton & Finger, P.A.

Exhibit 5.3 [Letterhead of Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll, LLP] September 10, 2002 Public Service Enterprise Group 80 Park Plaza, T-4 Newark, New Jersey 07102 Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as counsel to Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance by the Company of 9,200,000 Participating Units. Each Participating Unit will initially consist of a unit comprised of (a) a stock purchase contract (the "Purchase Contract") under which the holder is obligated to purchase from the Company on November 16, 2005, a number of shares of common stock, no par value, of the Company and (b) beneficial ownership of a 6.25% Preferred Trust Security of PSEG Funding Trust I, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), having a liquidation amount of $50. The assets of the Trust will consist of 6.25% Senior Deferrable Notes Due 2007 to be issued by the Company under an Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1998, between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), as Trustee, as supplemented by a Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 10, 2002. The Participating Units are to be issued pursuant to a Registration Statement (the "Registration Statement") on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-86372 and 333-86372-01), relating to $1,500,000,000 aggregate initial public offering price of the Company's common stock, preferred stock, purchase contracts, stock purchase units, debt securities, preferred securities guarantee and debt securities, and the preferred trust securities of the Trust. We have examined such documents and records and made such investigation as we deemed appropriate or necessary, including examining the Stock Purchase Contracts. Based upon the foregoing, subject to the limitations set forth herein and having regard for such legal considerations as we deem relevant, we are of the opinion that, assuming the due execution and delivery by the Company and authentication by the Purchase Contract Agent, the Purchase Contracts will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the effects of (1) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights in general and the rights of creditors generally and
(2) general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). This opinion is confined to and is given on the basis of the laws of the State of New York as they exist on the date hereof. With respect to the laws of the State of New Jersey, we have, with your permission, relied on all matters governed by such laws upon the opinion of James T. Foran, Associate General Counsel of the Company We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the reliance by James T. Foran on this opinion as to matters of New York law in rendering his opinion of even date herewith filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Very truly yours, /s/ Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll, LLP


