FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20050729165647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed with reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-86372, 333-86372-01, 333-120111, 333-120111-01 and 333-120111-02) of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated.

EXHIBIT 4.1
                                
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of  (this ""), between PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, a New Jersey corporation (the ""), having its principal office at 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101, and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (formerly known as First Union National Bank), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as Trustee (the ""), under the Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1998, between the Company and the Trustee (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "").
July 27, 2005
Second Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
Indenture
First Supplemental Indenture
                
WHEREAS, the Company has executed and delivered the Indenture to the Trustee to provide for the issuance from time to time of its senior debt securities evidencing its unsecured unsubordinated indebtedness (the ""), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Indenture.
Securities
                
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company provided for the establishment of a series of Securities, known as its "Senior Deferrable Notes due 2007" (the ""), in the First Supplemental Indenture.
Notes
                
WHEREAS, Section 901(9) of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of any Holders of Securities, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision therein which may be inconsistent with any other provision therein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture; provided that such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons in any material respect.
                
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee desire to amend and modify the Indenture as set forth herein pursuant to Section 901(9) of the Indenture.
                
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and enforceable agreement of the Company have been done and the execution and delivery of the First Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all material respects.
                
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of the Trust and any other future holders of the Notes (the ""), as follows:
Holders
                
1.              Section 101(c) of the First Supplemental Indenture is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
Definition of Declaration.
                
(c)           any term not defined herein or in the Indenture that is defined in the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (as amended from time to time, including without limitation, Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement
dated as of July 27, 2005, the ""), of the Trust has the same meaning when used in this First Supplemental Indenture.
Declaration
                
2.             . If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof or of the Indenture, which is required to be included in this Second Supplemental Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
                3.             . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. Unless otherwise indicated herein, a reference to a Section or Article is to a Section or Article of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Construction
                4.             . All covenants and agreements in this Second Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
                5.             . In case any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
                6.             . Nothing in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Benefits of Second Supplemental Indenture
                7.             . The recitals contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture shall be taken as statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness.
Recitals
                                
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

EXHIBIT 4.2
                
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED TRUST AGREEMENT of PSEG Funding Trust I (the ""), dated as of July 27, 2005, among (i) Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation (the ""), (ii) Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as trustee (the ""), (iii) Delaware Trust Company, National Association (formerly known as Wachovia Trust Company, National Association), a banking association organized under the laws of the United States (the ""), (iv) Bradford D. Huntington, Mark G. Kahrer and Morton A. Plawner (the "") (the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees are referred to collectively as the ""), [and (v) the several Holders, as hereinafter defined]. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2002 (the "").
Trust
Depositor
Property Trustee
Delaware Trustee
Administrative Trustees
Trustees
Declaration
                
WHEREAS, the Depositor, the Delaware Trustee and one of the Administrative Trustees named in the Original Declaration have heretofore duly declared and established a statutory trust pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act by entering into a Trust Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2002 (the ""), and by executing and filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a Certificate of Trust on March 18, 2002, a form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A; and
Original Declaration
                
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have heretofore amended and restated the Original Declaration in its entirety as set forth in the Declaration, to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of the Common Securities, as defined therein, by the Trust to the Depositor, (ii) the issuance and sale of the Preferred Securities, as defined therein, by the Trust pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, as defined therein, and (iii) the acquisition by the Trust from the Depositor of the Notes, as defined therein.
                
WHEREAS, Section 10.02(a) of the Declaration provides that the Declaration may be amended from time to time by the Trustees and the Depositor, without the consent of any Securityholders, to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or make any other change which does not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of any Holder of Preferred Securities and the Trustees and the Depositor desire to amend the Declaration as set forth herein pursuant to Section 10.02(a) of the Declaration.
                
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Amendment a valid amendment and agreement according to its terms have been done.
                
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, each party, for the benefit of the other party and for the benefit of the Securityholders, hereby agrees as follows:
                
1.             . The definition of Reset Spread in Section 1.01, "Definitions," of the Declaration is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
Definition of Reset Spread
"" means (a) in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Initial Remarketing Date, a spread amount to be determined by the Reset Agent on or after the applicable Reset Announcement Date and on or before the Initial Remarketing Date as the appropriate spread so that the Reset Rate will be the Distribution rate that the Preferred Securities should bear in order for the Preferred Securities and Separate Preferred Securities to be remarketed to have an approximate aggregate market value of 100.25% of the sum of the Treasury Portfolio Purchase Price and the Separate Preferred Securities Purchase Price on the Initial Remarketing Date plus deferred and unpaid Distributions, if any, on such Preferred Securities and (b) in the case of the Reset Rate to be determined on the Secondary Remarketing Date, if any, a spread amount determined by the Reset Agent on or after the applicable Reset Announcement Date and on or before the Secondary Remarketing Date as the appropriate spread so that the Reset Rate will be the Distribution rate that the Preferred Securities should bear in order for the Preferred Securities and Separate Preferred Securities to be remarketed to have an approximate market value of 100.25% of their aggregate Liquidation Amount on the Secondary Remarketing Date plus any deferred and unpaid Distributions, if any, on such Preferred Securities; provided, however, that, if the Reset Spread is not determined on the Reset Announcement Date, on that date, the Reset Agent shall determine an indicative amount for the Reset Spread which indicative amount will be used for purposes of the third and fourth sentences of Section 4.01(b) hereof and the third and fourth sentences of Section 204(c) of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Reset Spread
     
           2.             . Except as expressly modified and amended in this Amendment, all of the terms, provisions and conditions of the Declaration shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Effect of Amendment
                
3.             . In case any provision in this Amendment shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
                4.             . This Amendment shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to the Trust or successor Trustee or both, including any successor by operation of law.
Successors and Assigns
                5.             . The Section headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Amendment.
Headings
                
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.

EXHIBIT 23.1
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements Nos. 333-86372, 333-86372-01, 333-120111, 333-120111-01 and 333-120111-02 of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (the "Company") on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 28, 2005 (which reports (1) express an unqualified opinion on the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule and include explanatory paragraphs relating to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" described in Note 2, (2) express an unqualified opinion on management's assessment regarding the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and (3) express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting), relating to the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company and management's report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
July 28, 2005
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 23.2
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (File Nos. 333-86372, 333-86372-01, 333-120111, 333-120111-01 and 333-120111-02) of our report
dated February 22, 2005, except for Note 22 and Note 26, as to which the date is May 11, 2005, relating to the financial statements, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Exelon Corporation, which appears in Exelon Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2005 for the year ended December 31, 2004, which is incorporated by reference in the Definitive Joint Proxy Statement filed June 8, 2005 and June 13, 2005, of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 22, 2005 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in Exelon Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, which is incorporated by reference in the Definitive Joint Proxy Statement filed June 8, 2005 and June 13, 2005, of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated. We also consent to the reference to us under the heading "Experts" in such Registration Statement on Form S-3 of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chicago, IL
July 27, 2005
 
 
 
 
 


