FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20050801214722.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
        
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On August 1, 2005, PSEG announced unaudited financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the earnings release dated August 1, 2005 is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K. The information contained in this report is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 as directed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
4
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
August 1, 2005
 
PSEG ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER 2005 RESULTS:
 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS OF 42 CENTS PER SHARE
 
OPERATING EARNINGS OF 48 CENTS PER SHARE
 
Improved Nuclear and Fossil Operations at PSEG Power
 
Reaffirmed Guidance of $3.15 to $3.35 per Share, Excluding Merger Costs
 
Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) announced today (August 1, 2005) second quarter Income from Continuing Operations of $101 million or 42 cents per diluted share of common stock based on 243 million average shares outstanding. Including charges of $183 million or 76 cents per share related to Discontinued Operations at PSEG Power's Waterford facility, PSEG reported a net loss of $82 million or 34 cents per share. Income from Continuing Operations includes merger related costs (net of tax) of $14 million or 6 cents per share for the quarter. Excluding merger related costs, adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings for the second quarter 2005 were $115 million or 48 cents per share of common stock.
 
Comparable Income from Continuing Operations for the second quarter of 2004 was $127 million or 53 cents per share, based on 238 million average shares outstanding. Including a net loss of $3 million, or 1 cent per share from Discontinued Operations at PSEG Power and PSEG Global, PSEG reported Net Income of 52 cents per share.
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2005, PSEG reported Income from Continuing Operations of $393 million, or $1.62 per share based on 243 million average shares outstanding. Including charges of $190 million, or 78 cents per share related to Discontinued Operations at PSEG Power's Waterford facility, PSEG reported Net Income of $203 million or 84 cents per share. Income from Continuing Operations includes merger related costs (net of tax) of $16 million or 7 cents per share for the first six months. Excluding merger related costs, adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings were $409 million or $1.69 per share of common stock for the first six months.
 
Comparable Income from Continuing Operations for the first six months of 2004 was $409 million or $1.72 per share, based on 238 million average shares outstanding. Including a net loss of $14 million, or 6 cents per share from Discontinued Operations at PSEG Power and PSEG Global, PSEG reported Net Income of $1.66 per share.
 
 
 
 
Attachments to this release provide a summary of quarter and year-to-date results for 2005 and 2004 for PSEG's principal subsidiaries  Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power and PSEG Energy Holdings
.
 
 
"PSEG remains focused on achieving the operational and safety objectives we set out for the year and are very pleased with the operating results for the second quarter," said Thomas M. O'Flynn, chief financial officer. "Our nuclear units performed at a combined capacity factor of 86% this quarter, including the scheduled Salem 2 refueling outage, and our coal units also had improved performance during the quarter."
 
At PSE&G, the crews have been very busy keeping up with hot weather to ensure reliability of the system. The extreme heat and humidity pushed demand from PSE&G's customers to a new high of . The previous peak was recorded on August 14, 2002. O'Flynn indicated the hot weather would bode well for the third quarter earnings, however PSE&G's second quarter Operating Earnings were $14 million or 6 cents per share lower than the prior year.
10,780 megawatts on July 27
 
O'Flynn indicated that half the decline was attributable to lower demand revenues and volume. "With the fairly mild weather in April and May, our demand revenues were down from last year and we've seen reduced volume from a few large industrial users as they have cut back production or shut down plants."
 
Operating results for PSEG Power for the quarter, which exclude $7 million or 3 cents per share in merger-related costs, were $3 million or 1 cent per share favorable to last year. Improved performance of the nuclear fleet, the absence of congestion costs associated with the Branchburg transformer and the increased availability of the fossil fleet improved margins by about 15 cents for the quarter over the 2004 results. O'Flynn noted that the absence of a 9 cent benefit recorded last year in the Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund and 4 cents of other gains masked the strong operational performance at PSEG Power for the quarter.
 
 
 
 
Improved operations at PSEG Global, notably in Texas and South America, and foreign exchange gains in Poland, helped to offset the write-off of the United Airlines Lease at PSEG Resources. Overall, PSEG Energy Holdings' second quarter results were 2 cents per share better than last year.
 
PSEG reaffirmed that its 2005 Operating Earnings guidance of $3.15 to $3.35 per share excludes an estimated 10  15 cents per share for costs associated with the pending merger with Exelon Corporation. "Merger costs have become significant current year costs that were not anticipated in our original guidance," O'Flynn said.
 
During the second quarter, PSEG Nuclear initiated a work-force reduction in conjunction with the Nuclear Operating Services Agreement that was signed with Exelon last December. The workforce reductions underway are part of the overall merger plan to reduce staffing at nuclear by about 400 positions.
 
In July, PSEG shareholders approved the merger with Exelon, an important step in the overall approval process. This approval came on the heels of the June 30 approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The merger is currently under review by various other regulatory agencies including the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. O'Flynn indicated that the NJPBU has recently selected the consultants that will assist them in their review and that data requests from the NJBPU and consultants to date total almost 2000. "We are very focused on meeting the needs of both the Pennsylvania and New Jersey regulators as they review the merger request," O'Flynn said. The current schedule allows for a second quarter 2006 closing, however successful settlement discussions could result in a first quarter 2006 closing, consistent with the original 12 -15 months timeline.
th
 
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Exelon Corporation, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated's and Exelon Corporation's management, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties and may differ materially from actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the timing of the contemplated merger and the impact of any conditions imposed by regulators in connection with their approval thereof; the failure of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Exelon Corporation stockholders to make the requisite approvals for the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; failure to quickly realize cost-savings from the transaction as a result of technical, logistical, competitive and other factors; the effects of weather; the performance of generating units and transmission systems; the availability and prices for oil, gas, coal, nuclear fuel, capacity and electricity; changes in the markets for electricity and other energy-related commodities; changes in the number of participants and the risk profile of such participants in the energy marketing and trading business; the effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls systems; the effects of regulatory decisions and changes in law; changes in competition in the markets we serve; the ability to recover regulatory assets and other potential stranded costs; the outcomes of litigation and regulatory proceedings or inquiries; the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power projects; conditions of the capital markets and equity markets; advances in technology; changes in accounting standards; changes in interest rates and in financial and foreign currency markets generally; the economic and political climate and growth in the areas in which we conduct our activities; and changes in corporate strategies. While we believe that our forecasts and assumptions are reasonable, we caution that actual results may differ materially. We intend the forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time first made and we do not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available. Additional factors that could cause Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated's and Exelon Corporation's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 2004 Annual Reports on Form 10-K, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2005, of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Exelon Corporation, as well as Exelon's Form S-4 filed on February 4, 2005, as such reports and forms may have been amended, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's website, .
www.sec.gov
Additional Information
This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any security holder of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated or Exelon Corporation. Exelon Corporation has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement (File No. 333-122704) that includes the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus that has been mailed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Exelon Corporation to their respective security holders in connection with the proposed merger of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Exelon Corporation. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED, EXELON CORPORATION AND THE PROPOSED MERGER. Investors and security holders are able to obtain these materials and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission free of charge at the Securities and Exchange Commission's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus may be obtained free of charge from Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, Investor Relations, 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101-1171, or from Exelon Corporation, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398.
Participants in Solicitation
Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, Exelon Corporation, their respective directors and executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated's and Exelon Corporation's directors and executive officers is available in preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the above referenced registration statement. OTHER INFORMATION REGARDING THE PARTICIPANTS IN THE PROXY SOLICITATION AND A DESCRIPTION OF THEIR DIRECT AND INDIRECT INTERESTS, BY SECURITY HOLDINGS OR OTHERWISE, IS CONTAINED IN THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
 
 
 
Attachment 6
Attachment 7
*Calculation based on earnings from continuing operations for 12-month period ending


