FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20060802172935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549 CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
FORM 8-K
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) August 2, 2006
 
PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 8.01 Other Information in this combined Form 8-K is separately furnished, as noted, by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (Power) and PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings each makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
 
Item 8.01 Other Information
 
On August 2, 2006, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) delivered a letter to the Executive Director of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) in regard to a proposed settlement offer in the regulatory proceedings before the NJBPU in connection with the proposed merger of Exelon and PSEG, with copies to the Commissioners of the NJBPU and the parties of record. A copy of the August 2, 2006 letter is attached as Exhibit 99.1
 
The statements contained in this communication about our and our subsidiaries' future performance, including future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects and all other statements that are not purely historical, are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance they will be achieved. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein. A discussion of some of these risks and uncertainties is contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). A discussion of other risks associated with the proposed merger with Exelon Corporation is included in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC. These documents address in further detail our business, industry issues and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in this communication. In addition, any forward-looking statements included herein represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 

 
August 2, 2006
 
Mr. Victor Fortkiewicz
Executive Director
NJ Board of Public Utilities
Two Gateway Center
Newark, NJ 07102
 
 
Dear Mr. Fortkiewicz:
 
The significantly enhanced settlement proposal that we provided to you and to all the parties in the Exelon /PSEG merger proceeding last week was our last and best offer in an effort to bring the proceeding to a successful, timely conclusion. As we have discussed several times in the interim, Exelon and PSEG have considerable flexibility with respect to the various elements within the proposal, but we do not have the ability, consistent with our fiduciary duties and the current financial condition of PSE&G, to increase the overall size of the proposal. We believe that our proposal will provide approximately $1.46 billion of positive benefits to PSE&G's ratepayers and the State of New Jersey, as depicted in the attached Term Sheet, which was provided to you last week.
 
As we have also discussed, the Exelon Board is scheduled to meet this Friday afternoon. It is important that Exelon management be able to convey to its Board whether the BPU Staff will agree in principle to settle this matter within these overall financial parameters. As you know, many of the active parties in the proceeding, including every major labor union representing PSEG employees, customers, and competitors, have already indicated that these terms are acceptable, assuming the Staff is satisfied. If the Staff accepts these overall terms, we expect to be able to complete negotiations on a comprehensive merger stipulation with the Staff and a majority of the active parties in the case by the third week in August.
 
If we can complete a settlement within these parameters and within this time frame, we would file the merger stipulation with the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) late in August, the ALJ would review the stipulation, and after providing his recommended decision, the BPU Commissioners could consider the stipulation and his
 
-2-
 
 
recommendation at a BPU meeting at the end of September. Such a schedule will allow for full due process for all of the parties, and would conclude this proceeding approximately 20 months after the petition was filed. It could allow PSE&G to begin providing the substantial rate credits embodied in the Offer to customers as early as November 1, 2006.
     
 
If the Staff cannot agree in principle to these overall terms or the resultant timetable, we will so inform the Exelon and PSEG Boards. In such case we believe it is likely that we will be directed to withdraw the merger application and terminate our Merger Agreement. In such case the benefits provided by the merger to PSE&G's customers and to the State will be lost, and PSE&G will need to pursue its pending requests for approximately $200 million per year of electric and gas base rate relief. This is not a threat. It is just a factual statement of where both Companies are in terms of financial capability 20 months after entering into their Merger Agreement.
 
As mentioned, the Offer is outlined in detail in the attached Term Sheet. The Offer represents over $1.46 billion in positive benefits to the State of New Jersey. It includes $600 million of cash to be used in a combination of rate credits and funding for targeted customer and State benefits to be made available between the closing of the merger and January 2009. The $600 million represents value equal to ten years of the gross synergies ($60 million/year) expected from the merger and more than five times the value offered in January. The combination of rate credits and funding would provide immediate, direct benefits to PSE&G's customers, as well as to a variety of parties litigating the case, and could be used to provide funding for a number of programs that benefit the public at large (assistance for low income customers, economic development, conservation and energy efficiency projects to name a few). The $600 million package also could permit a substantial contribution to an Infrastructure Development Fund, to be established by the State of New Jersey.
    
 
The Offer also includes withdrawal of PSE&G's pending electric rate case coupled with a four-year rate stay out (until January 1, 2011). There is simply no other way that PSE&G's customers can achieve such an attractive result. The Offer of Settlement also reflects settlement of the pending $133 million/year gas rate case for $80 million/year with new rates to be implemented January 1, 2007 and no additional base rates to be effective prior to January 1, 2009. PSE&G's Gas Utility earned a return on equity of less than 4% for the 12-months ending June 30, 2006, which is clearly inadequate. Settlement of the gas case on this basis will assist in being able to maintain PSE&G's credit ratings.
 
The Offer also directly addresses any remaining issues pertaining to the impact of the merger on competition. The Petitioners believe that their recent settlement with the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice represents a definitive resolution of the so-called market power issues. Nonetheless, in light of the continuing concern over certain limited "screen failures" identified in the most recent analysis of the competitive issues completed by the PJM Market Monitoring Unit, Petitioners are proposing additional behavioral mitigation which the PJM Market Monitor
 
-3-
 
 
has analyzed. The MMU has recognized that the behavioral mitigation measures outlined in the Offer are effective.
 
The Offer also includes locating the headquarters of Exelon Energy Delivery Company (parent company of PSE&G, ComEd and PECO) in Newark. Finally, the Offer references a comprehensive draft Settlement Agreement that has been developed by the parties to the case that addresses numerous issues that have been resolved in the course of the ongoing settlement discussions. These issues include safety, reliability and customer service, maintaining the PSE&G capital program, maintaining 16 existing New Jersey Customer Service Centers for a minimum of five years, corporate governance, accounting, pension and other post-employment benefits ("OPEB") liabilities, service company issues, and affiliate standards.
 
This Offer is not being made in a vacuum. By having sent the Merger Application to the Office of Administrative Law for a formal hearing, the Board has provided the parties to the case an extensive opportunity to consider the issues presented by the merger very thoroughly, including many millions of pages of documentation from Exelon and PSEG. The parties to the proceeding have completed extensive discovery in the case, have participated in lengthy hearings before an Administrative Law Judge (17 hearing days over three months), and have had extensive formal and informal settlement negotiations (7 settlement meetings, 7 additional reliability settlement meetings, numerous independent discussions, i.e. accounting/OPEB, governance, service company). In short, the process leading to this point has been extraordinarily thorough, affording all parties to the case an opportunity to thoroughly examine the proposed merger. After such an extensive process, the matter is fully ready for resolution. We need to know as soon as possible whether the Staff is willing to enter into a settlement that will bring these considerable benefits of the merger to New Jersey.
 
In January, in testimony of John W. Rowe, the Petitioners offered to provide rate credits to PSE&G's customers of $120 million, which represents 75% of the expected synergies resulting over a four year period from the transaction. The 75% sharing mechanism is consistent with Board precedent. However, settlement discussions in the case have made it clear that the parties do not believe that offer is generous enough. In addition to Mr. Rowe's initial commitment of $120 million consistent with prior BPU precedent, we have made two previous enhanced settlement offers, both of which have been rejected by the Staff. In neither case has the Staff provided us with a counter proposal.
1
 
We have not made this Offer lightly. We believe that the merger represents both an attractive transaction from the perspective of our two corporations and a significant public benefit to the Citizens of New Jersey. We believe that the record in
_________________________
1 
I/M/O The Joint Petition Of FirstEnergy Corp. and Jersey Central Power & Light, D/B/A GPU Energy, for Approval Of A Change In Ownership And Acquisition Of Control Of A New Jersey Public Utility And Other Relief, BPU Docket No. EM00110870, Order dated October 9, 2001, page 20
 
 
-4-
 
 
the case shows conclusively that the merger meets the positive benefit standard established by the BPU for approval. Without the merger, the benefits outlined above will be lost, and PSE&G will need immediate substantial rate relief.
 
We respectfully request you provide us a response so that it can be communicated to our respective Boards of Directors.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for Settlement Discussions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reliability and Customer Service
 
 
 
 
Employees
 
 
 
 
 
 
Competition
 
 
Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


