FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20061101160339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On November 1, 2006, PSEG announced unaudited financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the earnings release dated November 1, 2006 is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K. The information contained in this report is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 as directed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: November 1, 2006

Exhibit 99
          (Newark, NJ November 1, 2006)  Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) announced today that third quarter 2006 Net Income and Operating Earnings were $1.48 per share, an increase of 34 cents for Operating Earnings over the third quarter of 2005.
          For the year-to-date, PSEG reported Net Income of $3.12 per share. Operating Earnings were $2.95 per share, which excludes the gain from the sale and operations of assets in Poland (90 cents per share), the loss from the sale of RGE (70 cents per share), and 3 cents per share of costs associated with the merger agreement with Exelon which was terminated in September.
          E. James Ferland, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, noted that the strong third quarter results were in line with the 2006 Operating Earnings guidance of $3.45 to $3.75 per share. Ferland noted that the recent settlements of the gas and electric cases were fair but are not final until acted upon by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). Ferland also reaffirmed 2007 Guidance of $4.60 to $5.00 per share. The tables below provide a reconciliation of PSEG's Net Income to Operating Earnings for the third quarter and year-to-date.
Exhibit 99
PSEG believes that the non-GAAP financial measure of "Operating Earnings" provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance of its businesses to help shareholders understand performance trends. Attachments to this release provide a reconciliation of Net Income to Operating Earnings and other summary exhibits for the third quarter and year-to-date 2006 and 2005 for PSEG's principal subsidiaries  PSE&G, PSEG Power and PSEG Energy Holdings. We have also included Attachment 11 to this release which shows the non-trading mark to market activity for the quarter and year-to-date periods for Power and Energy Holdings.
Exhibit 99
BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEWS
PSEG Power
          PSEG Power reported operating earnings of $203 million, or 81 cents per share for the third quarter of 2006, an increase of $67 million, or 26 cents per share from the third quarter of 2005.
          Higher realized prices primarily from forward sales contracts added 34 cents to Power's earnings for the quarter. "Most of this increase resulted from the rolling nature of our hedge contracts, including 17 cents driven by a full quarter of higher BGS contracts." noted Ferland. "The continuing benefits of the market-priced contracts from the 2006 BGS auction were realized in the third quarter and are reflected in our earnings expectations for 2006. Our fleet of nuclear units continued their excellent operations with the Hope Creek and Salem units running at about 100% during the summer months. These improved nuclear operations added about another 3 cents per share from the same quarter of last year," said Ferland.
          "Our nuclear units have undergone considerable improvements as a result of the Operating Services Contract (OSC) established with Exelon in January 2005. We had record output from Salem and Hope Creek in 2005 and we continue to build on that success this year" Ferland said. Through September, the aggregate year-to-date capacity factor was 96%, as opposed to 88% through September of last year. The performance improvements have also been recognized by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which has ended its expanded inspection activities of our work environment and returned to its normal reactor oversight process. PSEG has provided notice to Exelon that it is electing to continue the OSC for two years, during which time the companies will move into a transition phase. At the same time, PSEG continues consideration of a number of long-term alternatives and expects to define its long term strategy well before the two year period is completed. PSEG has the right to extend the transition phase of the OSC for an additional year if it so elects.
          Partially offsetting these gains were approximately 6 cents of higher interest and depreciation charges associated with Power's Linden Generating Station being placed in-service in May of this year. Also, the third quarter of this year overcame the absence of nuclear decommissioning trust fund gains of $38 million that were recognized in the third quarter of last year causing a year over year decrease of 9 cents. The prior year gains in the NDT fund were the result of restructuring and asset rebalancing.
          In 2002, Power entered into a consent decree with federal and state environmental regulators which required the investment in pollution control equipment at certain of its power units, including the installation of pollution control equipment at its Hudson station by December 31 of this year. The company has proposed an alternate pollution reduction plan that would achieve similar emission reductions and would allow for the Hudson unit to continue operating on coal. Power believes it is close to an agreement regarding this pollution reduction control plan and it has increased its environmental reserves by approximately $15 million, or 6 cents per share in the third quarter, to cover costs expected to be incurred as a result of this potential agreement.
Exhibit 99
PSE&G
          PSE&G reported operating earnings of $86 million or 34 cents per share for the third quarter, 13 cents lower than comparable 2005 results of $115 million or 47 cents per share. For the quarter, weather, while above normal, was below last year's record setting levels. Coupled with reduced demand due to higher BGS prices these items combined for a reduction of 5 cents per share.
          "PSE&G continues to excel in the reliable delivery of both gas and electricity. Reliability of the PSE&G system remained among the best in the country this summer despite six major summer storms and periods of record heat that pushed electric demand to an all-time peak" said Ralph Izzo, President and Chief Operating Officer.
          Also, quarterly results were lower than last year by 4 cents due to the elimination of the depreciation credit in December 2005 and by an additional 3 cents due to higher depreciation and amortization and increased O&M.
          PSE&G filed agreements achieved with all major parties to three separate rate proceedings. The agreements now await BPU review and action, and would resolve open matters involving gas delivery base rates, the expiration of an electric rate credit, and new residential gas supply rates. The gas base rate settlement provides for an additional $79 million of margin consisting of a $40 million rate increase and $39 million resulting from lower non-cash depreciation and amortization expenses. The settlement in the electric distribution financial review reduced the $64 million rate credit established in August 2003 to $22 million which, with volume growth, represents additional revenues of $47 million. "The agreements with the BPU staff, RPA and other intervening parties indicate the mutual resolve for balanced regulatory decisions so that the utility can maintain its exemplary service to its customers while providing a fair return to its shareholders," said Izzo. "I am also pleased that we were able to lower gas residential bills by 4.4 percent and only increase electric bills by less than 1%."
PSEG Energy Holdings
          Holdings reported operating earnings of $101 million, or 40 cents per share, an increase of $53 million or 20 cents per share from the third quarter of 2005. The improvement in spark spreads in the Texas market seen earlier this year continued into the third quarter of this year. "However spark spreads have softened a bit recently so we don't anticipate this benefit to continue into the next quarter," said Izzo.
          PSEG Global's Texas plants entered into long-term contracts last fall for a portion of their output that is subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment. Due to recent price declines in the market relative to these fixed-price contracts, the current period mark-to-market unrealized gains totaled approximately 12 cents per share and 15 cents per share for the quarter and year-to-date, respectively.
          Holdings also reported continued lower interest expense for the quarter. Proceeds from asset sales in Poland and Brazil had been invested with PSEG. Interest received on this inter-
Exhibit 99
company loan, combined with the redemption of the 2007 bonds that were redeemed in January of this year reduced interest expense by 4 cents per share. Holdings utilized the proceeds from the asset sales and cash accumulated from ongoing operations to fund a partial call of $300 million of its senior notes due in 2008 and return $425 million of capital to PSEG. The costs associated with the redemption totaled approximately 3 cents per share and were included in third quarter results. Also, Holdings had lower income taxes this quarter relative to last year, contributing approximately 9 cents, largely driven by the absence of tax expenses incurred in the third quarter of 2005 in connection with the repatriation of funds under the JOBS Act.
Corporate Profile
Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) (NYSE:PEG) is a publicly traded diversified energy company with annual revenues of more than $12 billion, and three principal subsidiaries: PSEG Power, one of the largest independent power producers in the U.S.; Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), New Jersey's oldest and largest energy distribution utility company; and, PSEG Energy Holdings, a holding company for other non-regulated energy businesses.
Forward-Looking Statement
Readers are cautioned that statements contained in this press release about our and our subsidiaries' future performance, including future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects and all other statements that are not purely historical, are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance they will be achieved. The results or events predicted in these statements may differ materially from actual results or events. Factors which could cause results or events to differ from current expectations include, among other things: the effects of weather; the performance of generating units and transmission systems; the availability and prices for oil, gas, coal, nuclear fuel, capacity and electricity; changes in the markets for electricity and other energy-related commodities; changes in the number of participants and the risk profile of such participants in the energy marketing and trading business; the effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls systems; the effects of regulatory decisions and changes in law; changes in competition in the markets we serve; the ability to recover regulatory assets and other potential stranded costs; the outcomes of litigation and regulatory proceedings or inquiries; the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power projects; conditions of the capital markets and equity markets; advances in technology; changes in accounting standards; changes in interest rates and in financial and foreign currency markets generally; the economic and political climate and growth in the areas in which we conduct our activities; and changes in corporate strategies. For further information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents address in further detail our business, industry issues and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in this release. In addition, any forward-looking statements included herein represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws.
Attachment 1
:
Note 1
Net Income includes preferred stock dividends relating to PSE&G of $1 million for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005.
Net Income includes preferred stock dividends / preference units distributions relating to PSE&G of $3 million and $3 million and PSEG Global of $0 million and $3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
:
Note 2
Basic Earnings per Share from Net Income was $1.48 and $1.06 per share for the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Basic Earnings per Share from Net Income was $3.12 and $1.91 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Attachment 2
:
Note 1
Income before Income Taxes includes preferred stock dividends relating to PSE&G of $1 million for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005.
:
Note 2
Primarily includes financing activities at the parent and intercompany eliminations.
Attachment 3
:
Note 1
Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes includes preferred stock dividends / preference units distributions relating to PSE&G of $3 million and $3 million and PSEG Global of $0 million and $3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
:
Note 2
Primarily includes financing activities at the parent and intercompany eliminations.
Attachment 4
PSEG's credit agreements contain covenants that require PSEG's debt to capitalization ratio not to exceed 70.0% at the end of any quarterly period. This ratio is presented for the benefit of the investors and the related securities to which the covenants apply and is not intended as a financial performance or liquidity measure.
The debt to capitalization ratio calculated under PSEG's credit agreements as of September 30, 2006 was 52.8%. The ratio as calculated pursuant to these covenants excludes non-recourse project debt ($896 million), securitization debt ($1.927 billion) and Debt Supporting Trust Preferred Securities ($660 million), which is now included in Long-Term debt due to the adoption of Financial Interpretation 46. It also includes capital lease obligations ($51 million) and certain other obligations such as guarantees and letters of credit ($157 million).
The debt to capitalization ratio calculated under PSEG's credit agreements as of December 31, 2005 was 59.9%. The ratio as calculated pursuant to these covenants excludes non-recourse project debt ($935 million), securitization debt ($2.041 billion) and Debt Supporting Trust Preferred Securities ($814 million), which is now included in Long-Term debt due to the adoption of Financial Interpretation 46. It also includes capital lease obligations ($53 million) and certain other obligations such as guarantees and letters of credit ($1.139 billion).
Attachment 5
Attachment 6
Attachment 7
Attachment 8
(A) Total Capital at Risk includes Global's gross investments less non-recourse debt at the project level.
(B) For investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, includes Global's share of net earnings, including Interest Expense and Income Tax Expense.
(C) Non-Recourse Interest is Interest Expense on debt that is non-recourse to Global.
(D) The $59 million increase in EBIT in North America for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, was primarily due to a $58 million increase of income from the results of operations at TIE. The $78 million increase in EBIT in North America for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, was primarily due to a $116 million increase of income from the results of operations at TIE offset by the $40 million of income from withdrawal of the Eagle Point cogeneration partnership interest in 2005.
Attachment 9
Attachment 10
*Calculation based on Operating Earnings for 12 month period ended
Attachment 11


