FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20060804212854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549 CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
FORM 8-K
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) August 4, 2006
 
PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 8.01 Other Information in this combined Form 8-K is separately furnished, as noted, by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (Power) and PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings each makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
 
Item 8.01 Other Information
 
On August 4, 2006, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and PSEG jointly issued a statement relating to their proposed merger. A copy of the statement is attached as exhibit 99.1
 
The statements contained in this communication about PSEG and its subsidiaries' future performance, including future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects and all other statements that are not purely historical, are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings believe that these expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, they can give no assurance they will be achieved. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein. A discussion of some of these risks and uncertainties is contained in PSEG's Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). A discussion of other risks associated with the proposed merger with Exelon Corporation is included in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC. These documents address in further detail the business, industry issues and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in this communication. In addition, any forward-looking statements included herein represent PSEG's, PSE&G's, Power's and Energy Holdings' estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing estimates as of any subsequent date. While PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, they specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if the estimates change, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Media Relations Contacts:
 
 
PSEG
 
Paul Rosengren - (973) 430-59111
 
Exelon
 
Kellie Szabo - (312) 394-3071
 
 
STATEMENT FROM PSEG AND EXELON:
 
PSEG AND EXELON TO CONTINUE MERGER SETTLEMENT
 
NEGOTIATIONS WITH NEW JERSEY
 
(NEWARK and CHICAGO  August 4, 2006) - PSEG and Exelon met late this afternoon with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJ BPU) staff to discuss the status of their proposed merger and the companies' settlement offer valued at $1.46 billion.
 
The companies appreciate the NJ BPU's commitment to engage in constructive and expeditious negotiations designed to reach a prompt resolution of the merger case.
 
This evening the Exelon Board of Directors met to consider the status of the merger. The Board authorized Exelon management to continue negotiations and report to the Board through August 21, 2006, and reconvene the Board if a satisfactory settlement is not concluded by that date. The Board also authorized management to terminate negotiations earlier if they will not result in a satisfactory settlement agreement.
 
"We are pleased that the NJ BPU staff is prepared to move forward with accelerated negotiations. We remain committed to the financial boundaries that we have outlined in our proposal but are flexible about the details. It has taken a great deal of effort to get this far and it makes sense to spend a little more time to try to make this work," said John W. Rowe, chairman, president and CEO, Exelon.
 
"Both companies are prepared to continue our best efforts -- working around the clock, seven days a week -- to reach a resolution as quickly as possible. We still believe the merger has clear, tangible and meaningful benefits for New Jersey," said E. James Ferland, chairman, president and CEO, PSEG.
 
Both Rowe and Ferland indicated they cannot predict the outcome of the negotiations and reiterated that both Boards of Directors would need to review and approve any settlement.
 
###
 
 
 
 
 


