FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20060202172100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
          The information contained in Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition in this Form 8-K is furnished solely for PSEG. The information contained in Item 8.01 Other Events in this combined Form 8-K is separately filed, as noted, by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (Power) and PSEG Energy Holdings LLC (Energy Holdings). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings each makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
PSEG
          On February 2, 2006, PSEG announced unaudited financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the earnings release dated February 2, 2006 is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K. The information contained in this report is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 as directed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 8.01 Other Events
PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings
          Fourth Quarter and Annual 2005 Results
          On February 2, 2006, the following unaudited results were announced for PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings.
          Income from Continuing Operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $220 million, $66 million, $103 million and $74 million for PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, respectively. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, Income from Continuing Operations for PSE&G does not include preferred securities dividends of $1 million. Net Income for PSEG, or Earnings Available to PSEG with respect to PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $205 million, $65 million, $86 million and $77 million, respectively.
          Income from Continuing Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $858 million, $348 million, $406 million and $199 million for PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, respectively. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, Income from Continuing Operations for PSE&G and Energy Holdings does not include preferred securities dividends/distributions of $4 million and $3 million, respectively. Net Income for PSEG, or Earnings Available to PSEG with respect to PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $661 million, $344 million, $192 million and $214 million, respectively.
          
Regulatory Proceedings  Merger
          As previously disclosed, on December 20, 2004, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and PSEG entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, pursuant to which PSEG will merge with and into Exelon with Exelon continuing as the surviving corporation (Merger). There are a number of regulatory approvals or other regulatory actions required to consummate the Merger.
          On January 27, 2006, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approved the Merger.
          In the hearings related to the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) review of the Merger, on January 27, 2006, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) approved an extension of the scheduled hearings through February 27, 2006, to enable the PJM Market Monitor to complete an analysis of the adequacy of the proposed sale of 4,000 megawatts of fossil generation and the virtual divestiture of 2,600 megawatts of nuclear. Settlement discussions began in December 2005 and are expected to resume after the hearings conclude. No firm dates have been set for the ALJ's initial decision and final order from the BPU.
          Other remaining regulatory reviews include the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). PSEG expects to complete all of the regulatory reviews and close the merger late in the second quarter of 2006. Closing may occur earlier if a settlement is reached and accepted by the BPU.
PSEG and PSE&G
          $64 Million Financial Review
          Based on the Electric Base Rate Case approved in July 2003, PSE&G recorded a regulatory liability in the second quarter of 2003 by reducing its depreciation reserve for its electric distribution assets by $155 million and amortized this liability from August 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005. The $64 million annual amortization of this liability resulted in a reduction of Depreciation and Amortization expense. The BPU's order allowed PSE&G to file for an additional $64 million annual increase in electric distribution rates effective January 1, 2006, subject to BPU approval, including a review of PSE&G's earnings and other relevant financial information. On February 1, 2006, the BPU requested updated financial analysis through March 31, 2006 and therefore electric distribution rates were not increased effective January 1, 2006. It is anticipated that the parties will discuss a possible settlement of this issue. PSE&G does not expect this issue to be resolved before the end of the first quarter of 2006. The impact of not receiving this increase reduces PSE&G's earnings by more than $5 million (pre-tax) per month.
PSEG and Energy Holdings
          
Elektrocieplownia Chorzow Sp. Z o.o. (Elcho) and Electrownia Skawina SA (Skawina)
          On January 31, 2006, Energy Holdings' subsidiary, PSEG Global L.L.C. (Global), entered into an agreement for the sale of its indirect interests in its two electric generating facilities in Poland, Elcho and Skawina, to CEZ a.s., the former Czech national utility company and the largest electric power company in central and eastern Europe. Elcho is a 220 MW coal-fired plant in which Global has an approximate 89% economic interest. Skawina is a 590 MW coal- and biomass-fired plant that is approximately 75% owned by Global. Each plant supplies electricity and heat to areas in southern Poland. 
          Net proceeds from the sale are subject to various purchase price adjustments, foreign currency fluctuations and contingencies and are currently expected to be in excess of $300 million after taxes and transaction costs. As of December 31, 2005, the book value of the assets was approximately $110 million. The sale is expected to close in the second quarter and is subject to the satisfaction of a number of customary conditions precedent including lender and regulatory approvals. As a result of the expected sale, Global will present these investments as a Discontinued Operation in its 2005 financial statements and will reclassify prior periods for comparability.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: February 2, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: February 2, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: February 2, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: February 2, 2006

February 2, 2006
(Newark, NJ February 2, 2006)  Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) announced today that 2005 Income from Continuing Operations was 11% higher than comparable 2004 results. Operating Earnings, which exclude the impact of costs associated with the pending merger with Exelon, were 15% higher than 2004.
PSEG believes that the non-GAAP financial measure of "Operating Earnings" provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance of its businesses to help shareholders understand performance trends. The tables below provide a reconciliation of PSEG's Income from Continuing Operations to Operating Earnings for the full year and fourth quarter.
"The growth in Operating Earnings for the year is a direct result of the improved operation of our nuclear and fossil fleets," said E. James Ferland, chairman and chief executive officer of PSEG. For the year, PSEG's five-unit nuclear fleet had a capacity factor of 90%, an 8% improvement over the 2004 capacity factor of 82%. "Exceptional performance in the fourth quarter by the entire team at Salem Unit 1 allowed us to complete a refueling outage and replacement of the reactor vessel head in a world-record 25 days. This was 17 days faster than our initial estimates of a year ago," Ferland said. Experience gained from the strong performance during an identical outage in the spring on Salem Unit 2 was credited as a major factor in achieving the world-record time for replacing the reactor head.
"Improvements in the overall work management processes at the New Jersey nuclear site during the year were a direct result of the Operating Services Agreement that PSEG entered into with Exelon in late 2004," Ferland said. "By applying the best practices gained from their large fleet of nuclear plants, Exelon has demonstrated how a focused approach to running nuclear plants can produce significant benefits in a short period of time however; we realize we still have a way to go to achieve the performance levels of the Exelon fleet."
"Operating Earnings for the quarter, which doubled those of last year, resulted from improved operations at PSEG Power and an increased contribution from PSEG Energy Holdings," Ferland said. The capacity factor for PSEG's five-unit nuclear fleet increased from 64% in fourth quarter 2004 to 93% in fourth quarter 2005. This increase, in spite of planned refueling outages at our Salem 1 and Peach Bottom 3 units, was the result of above-plan nuclear output at the New Jersey site and the relative improvement over 2004's disappointing performance in the fourth quarter. At PSEG Energy Holdings an 18 cent gain on the sale of the Seminole lease, partially offset by 4 cents of costs to redeem the 2007 bond maturity, boosted earnings for the quarter.
On January 31, 2006 PSEG Energy Holdings announced that it entered into an agreement to sell its two coal-fired assets in Poland to CEZ a.s. As of December 31, 2005, the book value of the assets was approximately $110 million. The expected sale should generate net cash proceeds in excess of $300 million with an anticipated closing sometime in the second quarter. As a result of the pending sale, the $17 million of income in 2005 and the $15 million loss in 2004 from these assets have been reclassified to Discontinued Operations.
During the fourth quarter, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard that clarifies the accounting for legal obligations to remove property conditioned on future events. PSEG recorded a charge of $17 million, or 7 cents per share as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle with the adoption of FIN 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations." The $17 million charge primarily relates to the impact of adopting this standard at PSEG Power. For Public Service Electric & Gas (PSE&G), the adoption of FIN 47 only impacted the balance sheet as these costs are recoverable from customers.
Attachments to this release provide a reconciliation of Income from Continuing Operations to Operating Earnings and other summary exhibits for the quarter and year-to-date for 2005 and 2004 for PSEG's principal subsidiaries  PSE&G, PSEG Power and PSEG Energy Holdings.
2005 SUMMARY  PSEG Power
Thomas M. O'Flynn, PSEG's chief financial officer provided additional details on the results for the quarter and full year. For 2005, PSEG Power reported operating earnings of $418 million or $1.71 per share, excluding $12 million in merger-related costs, exceeding the top end of its guidance range of $335 million to $385 million for the year and also its 2004 earnings of $342 million or $1.43 per share. Most of the improved results came in the fourth quarter when increased nuclear output was available for sale into a very strong energy market.
"By improving availability of all three New Jersey units, we produced about 2.2 more gigawatt hours of low-cost nuclear power during the fourth quarter this year, compared to last year, when the Hope Creek unit was shut down for most of the quarter and both Salem units were off-line for several days due to the oil spill in the Delaware River," O'Flynn said. Replacement power costs for the fourth quarter of 2004 were identified as 22 cents per share.
Higher than planned output from all three units added 4 cents to earnings for the quarter, while the early return of Salem 1 from the refueling and reactor vessel head replacement outage contributed 5 cents. "The 9 cent improvement for the quarter from these two events was the main driver behind PSEG and Power exceeding their full year guidance," said O'Flynn.
Offsetting some of this benefit was 4 cents for the quarter and 5 cents for the full year for the impacts of mark-to-market accounting on a small portion of the non-trading, energy related forward contracts that Power enters into as part of its ongoing portfolio management. Interest and depreciation from the addition of new plants in Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Albany, New York reduced Power's 2005 results by 3 cents for the quarter and 7 cents for the full year. Finally, O&M costs for the year and the quarter were lower, driven by the absence of costs associated with the extended outage at Hope Creek during 2004.
2005 SUMMARY  PSE&G
Overall, PSE&G reported operating earnings of $347 million or $1.42 per share, excluding $3 million of merger costs, an increase of $5 million from the prior year, but an overall reduction of 2 cents per share due to additional shares outstanding in 2005. Year-over-year weather, mostly electric, added about 6 cents per share to PSE&G's results. PSE&G also benefited from reduced interest costs of about 4 cents
per share compared to 2004. The favorable weather and interest impacts were somewhat mitigated by increased O&M costs of 9 cents per share attributable to higher labor and benefit costs.
For the fourth quarter, Operating Earnings increased $4 million to $68 million, or 27 cents per share, excluding merger costs of $3 million. "Weather was normal for the quarter, but slightly colder than last year which contributed modestly to earnings" O'Flynn said. Also benefiting PSE&G for the quarter were lower interest costs.
2005 SUMMARY  PSEG Energy Holdings
PSEG Energy Holdings reported operating earnings of $196 million, or 81 cents per share for the year. This is an increase of $61 million or 25 cents per share over the comparable 2004 results. Improved operations at Texas Independent Energy (TIE) contributed 13 cents per share. Increased earnings from South America contributed another 16 cents to the growth in earnings for the year. Operating earnings for 2005 includes the 18 cent gain from the sale of the Seminole lease in December by PSEG Resources. In addition, there was a net 8 cents per share decline year-over-year driven primarily by various sales in 2004 and 2005 at PSEG Global. Gains recognized in 2004 on the sale of securities in the KKR portfolio within PSEG Resources reduced the year-over-year contribution by 4 cents per share.
Proceeds from the Seminole sale, along with cash on hand, were used to redeem all of the outstanding PSEG Energy Holdings 7.75% bonds due in 2007. Premium costs of 4 cents per share associated with the redemption were recorded in the fourth quarter. For the year, $242 million was repatriated from PSEG Global at a cost of 4 cents per share in incremental tax expense.
Energy Holdings reported fourth quarter operating earnings of $74 million, or 30 cents per share, an increase of $34 million or 14 cents per share compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. In addition to the gain on the Seminole sale partially offset by debt extinguishment costs, continued favorable results from TIE and the South American investments contributed 8 cents, offset by reduced earnings of 4 cents per share from the KKR portfolio held by PSEG Resources.
2006 OUTLOOK
"We see continued strong prospects for growth in earnings and cash flow from our operating companies, and on January 17 we announced another increase in our quarterly dividend," said Ferland. With an indicative annual rate of $2.28 per share, this is the third consecutive year PSEG has provided shareholders with a dividend increase.
th
Ferland reaffirmed 2006 operating earnings guidance in the range of $3.45 to $3.75 per share. The 2006 guidance is based on earnings ranges for each operating company as follows: PSE&G, $315 million to $335 million, PSEG Power, $475 million to $525 million, PSEG Energy Holdings, $155 million to $175 million. Reducing these results are estimated costs of $70 million to $80 million at the parent.
As part of the August 2004 electric base rate proceeding, a $64 million annual depreciation credit was established with an expiration date of December 31, 2005. The agreement called for PSE&G to receive a corresponding increase in electric base rates upon the expiration of the depreciation credit, subject to review by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). "We expected to have a reasonable outcome
at the beginning of the year on this issue, however at this time, we do not expect it to be resolved before the end of the first quarter," said Ferland. The impact on PSE&G's 2006 guidance of not receiving this increase is more than $5 million (pre-tax) per month.
In September 2005 PSE&G filed for a gas base rate increase for new rates effective October 1, 2006. "We expect to file full test year actual information at the end of February and receive a decision in September," said Ferland. The decline in expected operating earnings at PSE&G from 2005 to the mid-point of the 2006 guidance range assumes normal weather, reasonable regulatory relief and some increased O&M costs.
Ferland said, "The nuclear fleet is expected to operate at a 91% capacity factor in 2006, a 1% improvement over the very strong 2005 results largely driven by the Nuclear Operating Services Agreement with Exelon." In the spring, Hope Creek will undergo its first refueling outage under the Agreement. Ferland noted that the projected 15% to 25% increase in earnings at Power over 2005 is driven by the rolling nature of the forward positions, as the expected output is recontracted at prevailing prices. The benefit is partially offset by increased depreciation and interest expense from the new Linden plant, which is expected to go into service in mid-2006.
For Energy Holdings, continued strength in the Texas market is expected to be a major contributor to 2006 operating earnings. Last year was the final Eagle Point payment however, its absence in 2006 will be offset by the elimination of expenses associated with the cash repatriation and debt premiums that were incurred in 2005. The guidance for Energy Holdings does not include any anticipated gain from the sale of the Polish assets.
MERGER UPDATE
In New Jersey, hearings by the Office of Administrative Law (OAL) on the proposed merger with Exelon have extended into February to enable the PJM Market Monitor to complete an analysis of the adequacy of the proposed sale of 4,000 megawatts of fossil generation and the virtual divestiture of 2,600 megawatts of nuclear. Ferland said, "In late December we provided the PJM Market Monitor with various alternatives for asset sales that meet the requirements approved by FERC last summer. We expect the necessary analysis and testimony will take a few more weeks, but we feel confident that in the end, it will provide the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities with the level of detail it requires to make an affirmative decision." The OAL approved additional hearing dates through February 27, if necessary.
No firm dates have been set for decisions by the OAL and the New Jersey BPU based on the additional hearing dates. PSEG also continues to work with the Department of Justice to provide the information it needs to complete its review. PSEG expects to complete the regulatory reviews and close the merger late in the second quarter of 2006. Closing could occur earlier if a settlement is reached and approved by the New Jersey BPU.
On January 27, 2006 the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approved the merger.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Exelon Corporation, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical or current facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated's and Exelon Corporation's management, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties and may differ materially from actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the timing of the contemplated merger and the impact of any conditions imposed by regulators in connection with their approval thereof; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; failure to quickly realize cost-savings from the transaction as a result of technical, logistical, competitive and other factors; the effects of weather; the performance of generating units and transmission systems; the availability and prices for oil, gas, coal, nuclear fuel, capacity and electricity; changes in the markets for electricity and other energy-related commodities; changes in the number of participants and the risk profile of such participants in the energy marketing and trading business; the effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls systems; the effects of regulatory decisions and changes in law; changes in competition in the markets we serve; the ability to recover regulatory assets and other potential stranded costs; the outcomes of litigation and regulatory proceedings or inquiries; the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power projects; conditions of the capital, equity and credit markets; advances in technology; changes in accounting standards; changes in interest rates and in financial and foreign currency markets generally; the economic and political climate and growth in the areas in which we conduct our activities; and changes in corporate strategies. While we believe that our forecasts and assumptions are reasonable, we caution that actual results may differ materially. We intend the forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time first made and we do not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available. Additional factors that could cause Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated's and Exelon Corporation's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 2004 Annual Reports on Form 10-K, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2005, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Exelon Corporation, respectively, as such reports may have been amended, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's website, .
www.sec.gov
Attachment 1
:
Note 1
Net Income includes preferred stock dividends / preference units distributions relating to PSE&G of $1 million and $1 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.
Net Income includes preferred stock dividends / preference units distributions relating to PSE&G of $4 million and $4 million, PSEG Global of $3 million and $13 million and PSEG Resources of $0 and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
:
Note 2
Basic Earnings per Share from Net Income was $0.84 and $0.37 per share for the quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Basic Earnings per Share from Net Income was $2.75 and $3.06 per share for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Attachment 2
Attachment 3
Attachment 4
PSEG's credit agreements contain covenants that require PSEG's debt to capitalization ratio not to exceed 70.0% at the end of any quarterly period. The debt to capitalization ratio calculated under PSEG's credit agreements as of December 31, 2005 was and 59.9%. The ratio as calculated pursuant to these covenants exclude non-recourse project debt ($935 million), securitization debt ($2.041 billion) and Debt Supporting Trust Preferred Securities ($814 million), which is now included in Long-Term debt due to the adoption of Financial Interpretation 46, and include capital lease obligations ($46 million) and certain other obligations such as guarantees and letters of credit ($1.139 billion). This ratio is presented for the benefit of the investors and the related securities to which the covenants apply and is not intended as a financial performance or liquidity measure.
Attachment 5
Attachment 6
Attachment 7
Attachment 8
(A) Total Capital at Risk includes Global's gross investments and equity commitment guarantees less non-recourse debt at the project level.
(B) For investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, includes Global's share of net earnings, including Interest Expense and Income Tax Expense.
(C) Non-Recourse Interest is Interest Expense on debt that is non-recourse to Global.
(D) Total Capital at Risk includes amounts relating to Elcho and Skawina as the sale has not been completed and therefore there is still Capital at Risk in Poland. EBIT and Non-Recourse Interest exclude amounts relating to Elcho and Skawina as these amounts are being reported in Discontinued Operations.
Attachment 10


