FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20060622202218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     The information contained in Item 8.01 Other Information in this combined Form 8-K is separately furnished, as noted, by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (Power) and PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings each makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
Item 8.01 Other Information
     As previously disclosed, on June 22, 2006, PSEG and Exelon Corporation (Exelon) issued a joint press release concerning a settlement with the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice with respect to the proposed merger of Exelon and PSEG. Attached as Exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the settlement documents, including the Hold Separate Stipulation and Order (Exhibit 99.1), the Proposed Final Judgment (Exhibit 99.2), and the related Complaint (Exhibit 99.3).
     The statements contained in this communication about PSEG and its subsidiaries' future performance, including future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects and all other statements that are not purely historical, are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although PSEG believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it gives no assurance they will be achieved. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein. A discussion of some of these risks and uncertainties is contained in PSEG's, PSE&G's, Power's and Energy Holdings' Annual Reports on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). A discussion of other risks associated with the proposed merger with Exelon Corporation is included in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC. These documents address in further detail PSEG's business, industry issues and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in this communication. In addition, any forward-looking statements included herein represent estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing estimates as of any subsequent date. While PSEG may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if estimates change, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1       Hold Separate Stipulation and Order
Exhibit 99.2       Proposed Final Judgment
Exhibit 99.3       Complaint
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: June 22, 2006
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: June 22, 2006
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: June 22, 2006
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: June 22, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
          It is hereby stipulated by and between the undersigned parties, subject to approval and entry by the Court, that:
          As used in this Hold Separate Stipulation and Order:
 
 
 
 
 
 
     The Final Judgment filed in this case is meant to ensure Defendants' prompt divestiture of the Divestiture Assets in order to remedy the effects that the United States alleges would otherwise result from the Exelon/PSEG Transaction. This Hold Separate Stipulation and Order ensures that, prior to such divestiture, (1) the Divestiture Assets will be offered into the PJM Market as specified herein; (2) the Divestiture Assets will be preserved, maintained, and operated at least in the same physical condition as of the date of consummation of the
 
Exelon/PSEG Transaction, ordinary wear and tear excepted and consistent with Good Utility Practice; and (3) competition is maintained during the pendency of the ordered divestiture.
     The Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this action and, for purposes of this action only, over each of the parties hereto, and venue of this action is proper in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
 
 
     From consummation of the Exelon/PSEG Transaction until the divestitures required by Section IV and Section V of the Final Judgment have been accomplished:
 
     From consummation of the Exelon/PSEG Transaction until the divestitures required by Section IV and Section V of the Final Judgment have been accomplished:
 
on May 15, 2006, to provide energy on May 16, 2006. The Defendants shall make offers as follows:
 
 
 
 
Operating Agreement of PJM Interconnection, LLC," Section 6.4, Defendants must communicate that information to the auditor in writing within six (6) hours.
 
Dated: June 22, 2006
Respectfully submitted,
 
Fax: (202) 307-2784
It is SO ORDERED, this day of ___, 2006.
            
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
     WHEREAS, Plaintiff, United States of America, filed its Complaint on June 22, 2006, relating to the proposed merger of Defendants Exelon Corporation ("Exelon") and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated ("PSEG");
     AND WHEREAS, Defendants, by their respective attorneys, have consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and without this Final Judgment constituting any evidence against or admission by any party regarding any issue of fact or law;
     AND WHEREAS, Defendants agree to be bound by the provisions of this Final Judgment pending its approval by the Court;
 
     AND WHEREAS, the essence of this Final Judgment is the prompt divestiture of certain assets by Defendants to assure that competition is not substantially lessened;
     AND WHEREAS, the United States requires Defendants to make certain divestitures for the purpose of remedying the loss of competition alleged in the Complaint;
     AND WHEREAS, Defendants have represented to the United States that the divestitures required below can and will be made, subject to receipt of necessary regulatory approvals, and that Defendants will later raise no claim of mistake, hardship, or difficulty of compliance as grounds for asking the Court to modify any of the provisions contained below;
     NOW THEREFORE, before any testimony is taken, without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and upon consent of the parties, it is ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED:
     The Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of and each of the parties to this action. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against Defendants under Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C.  18.
     As used in this Final Judgment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Defendants shall not finance all or any part of any purchase made pursuant to Sections IV or V of this Final Judgment.
 
     Until the divestitures required by this Final Judgment have been accomplished, Defendants shall take all steps necessary to comply with the Hold Separate Stipulation and Order entered by the Court. Defendants shall take no action that would jeopardize, delay, or impede the divestiture order by the Court.
     Defendants may not acquire or control any of the Divestiture Assets during the term of this Final Judgment.
 
 
 
 
     The Court retains jurisdiction to enable any party to this Final Judgment to apply to the Court at any time for further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Judgment, to modify any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions.
     Unless the Court grants an extension, this Final Judgment shall expire ten (10) years from the date of its entry.
 
     Based on the record in this case, entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest, and the parties have complied with the procedures of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C.  16.
Dated:
______________________
United States District Judge
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
     The United States of America, acting under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, brings this civil action to enjoin the merger of Exelon Corporation ("Exelon") and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated ("PSEG") and alleges as follows:
 
     1. On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into an agreement to merge with PSEG. The transaction would create one of the largest electricity companies in the United States with total assets of $79 billion and annual revenues of $27 billion.
     2. Exelon and PSEG compete to sell wholesale electricity throughout the Mid-Atlantic and in Illinois, North Carolina, West Virginia, and Ohio.
     3. Exelon and PSEG are the two largest electricity firms in the area encompassing central and eastern Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, the District of Columbia, and parts of Maryland and Virginia. Together, they would account for more than 35 percent of the electric generating capacity in this area and would have wholesale electricity revenues of approximately $4 billion.
     4. In the eastern portion of this area, which includes the densely populated northern New Jersey and Philadelphia areas, Exelon and PSEG together would account for more than 45 percent of the electric generating capacity in this area and would have wholesale electricity revenues of approximately $3 billion.
     5. Exelon's merger with PSEG would eliminate competition between them and give the merged firm the incentive and the ability to raise wholesale electricity prices, resulting in increased retail electricity prices for millions of residential, commercial, and industrial customers in these areas.
     6. Accordingly, the merger would substantially lessen competition in violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C.  18.
 
     7. This action is filed by the United States under Section 15 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C.  25, to prevent and restrain Defendants from violating Section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C.  18.
     8. Exelon and PSEG are engaged in interstate commerce and in activities substantially affecting interstate commerce. The Court has jurisdiction over this action and the parties pursuant to Sections 15 and 16 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C.  25, 26; and 28 U.S.C.  1331, 1337.
     9. Exelon and PSEG transact business and are found in the District of Columbia. Venue is proper under Section 12 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C.  22; and 28 U.S.C.  1391(c).
     10. Defendant Exelon is a Pennsylvania corporation, with its headquarters in Chicago, Illinois. Exelon owns Exelon Generation Company, LLC, which owns electric generating plants located primarily in the Mid-Atlantic and the Midwest with a total generating capacity of more than 25,000 megawatts ("MW"). Exelon also owns two electricity retailers that buy wholesale electricity and resell it to consumers: PECO Energy Company, a gas and electric utility that serves customers in the Philadelphia area; and Commonwealth Edison Company, an electric utility that serves customers in northern Illinois.
 
     11. Defendant PSEG is a New Jersey corporation, with its headquarters in Newark, New Jersey. PSEG owns PSEG Power LLC, which owns electric generating plants located primarily in New Jersey with a total generating capacity of more than 15,000 MW. PSEG also owns a gas and electric utility, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, that serves customers in New Jersey.
     12. Following Exelon's merger with PSEG, the combined company would be known as Exelon Electric & Gas, with corporate headquarters in Chicago.
A.
Background
     13. Electricity supplied to retail customers is generated at electric generating plants, which consist of one or more generating units. An individual generating unit uses any one of several types of generating technologies (including hydroelectric turbine, steam turbine, combustion turbine, or combined cycle) to transform the energy in fuels or the force of flowing water into electricity. The fuels used by a generating unit include uranium, coal, oil, or natural gas.
     14. Generating units vary considerably in their operating costs, which are determined primarily by the cost of fuel and the efficiency of the technology in transforming the energy in fuel into electricity. "Baseload" units  which typically include nuclear and some coal-fired steam turbine units  have relatively low operating costs. "Peaking" units  which typically
 
include oil- and gas-fired combustion turbine units  have relatively high operating costs. "Mid-merit" units  which typically include combined-cycle and some coal-fired steam turbine units  have costs lower than those of peaking units but higher than those of baseload units.
     15. Once electricity is generated at a plant, an extensive set of interconnected high-voltage lines and equipment, known as the transmission grid, transports the electricity to lower voltage distribution lines that relay the power to homes and businesses. Transmission grid operators must closely monitor the grid to prevent too little or too much electricity from flowing over the grid, either of which might damage lines or generating units connected to the grid. To prevent such damage and to prevent widespread blackouts from disrupting electricity service, a grid operator will manage the grid to prevent any more electricity from flowing over a transmission line as that line approaches its operating limit (a "transmission constraint").
     16. In the Mid-Atlantic, the transmission grid is overseen by PJM Interconnection, LLC ("PJM"), a private, non-profit organization whose members include transmission line owners, generation owners, distribution companies, retail customers, and wholesale and retail electricity suppliers. The transmission grid administered by PJM is the largest in the United States, providing electricity to approximately 51 million people in an area encompassing New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, the District of Columbia, and parts of North Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Tennessee, and Illinois (the "PJM control area").
 
     17. PJM oversees two auctions for the sale and purchase of wholesale electricity: a day-ahead auction that clears the day before the electricity is required, and a real-time auction that clears the day the electricity is required. Generation owners located in the PJM control area sell through these auctions to electricity retailers that provide retail electric service in the PJM control area. Buyers and sellers of wholesale electricity may also enter into contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity with each other, or third parties, outside of the PJM auction process; prices for these bilateral contracts generally reflect expected auction prices.
     18. In the day-ahead auction, each buyer typically submits to PJM the amount of electricity the buyer expects to need each hour of the next day. Then PJM adds up the amount of electricity buyers will need to determine how much electricity will be demanded each hour. Each seller submits to PJM an offer to sell electricity indicating the amount of electricity it is willing to sell the next day and the price at which it is willing to sell. Then PJM sorts the offers to sell from lowest to highest offer price to determine how much electricity will be supplied at any given price.
     19. Subject to the physical and engineering limitations of the transmission grid, PJM seeks to have generating units operated in "merit" order, from lowest to highest offer. In the day-ahead auction, as long as transmission constraints are not expected, PJM takes the least expensive offer first and then continues to accept offers to sell at progressively higher prices until the needs for each hour the next day are covered. In this way, PJM minimizes the total cost of generating electricity required for the next day. The clearing price for any given hour essentially
 
is determined by the generating unit with the highest offer price that is needed for that hour, and all sellers for that hour receive that price regardless of their offer price or their units' costs. In the real-time auction, which accounts for differences between anticipated and actual supply and demand, PJM accepts sellers' offers in merit order, subject to the physical and engineering limitations of the transmission grid, until there is a sufficient quantity of electricity to meet actual demand.
     20. At times, transmission constraints prevent the generating units with the lowest offers from meeting demand in a particular area within the PJM control area. When that happens, PJM often calls on more expensive units located within the smaller area bounded by the transmission constraints (a "constrained area"), and the clearing price for the buyers in that area adjusts accordingly. Because more expensive units are required to meet demand, the clearing price in a constrained area will be higher than it would be absent the transmission constraints.
     21. One historically constrained area within the PJM control area includes the densely populated northern New Jersey and Philadelphia areas. This area ("PJM East") is defined by the "Eastern Interface," a set of five major transmission lines that divides New Jersey and the Philadelphia area from the rest of the PJM control area. When the Eastern Interface is constrained, PJM is limited in its ability to supply demand located east of the constraint with electricity from generating units located west of the constraint. PJM often responds to constraints on the Eastern Interface by calling on additional generating units east of the constraint
PJM East.
 
to run, generally resulting in higher prices in PJM East because the cost of additional generation east of the constraint is higher than the cost of additional generation west of the constraint.
     22. In PJM East during 2005, more than $10 billion of wholesale electricity was sold for resale to nearly 6 million retail customers.
     23. A second constrained area in PJM includes PJM East and central Pennsylvania. This area is defined by two major transmission lines known as "5004" and "5005" that run from western to central Pennsylvania and divide the area east of the lines ("PJM Central/East") from the rest of PJM. When the 5004 and 5005 transmission lines are constrained, PJM is limited in its ability to supply demand located east of the constraint with electricity from generating units located west of the constraint. PJM often responds to constraints on the 5004 and 5005 lines by calling on additional generating units east of the constraint to run, generally resulting in higher prices in PJM Central/East because the cost of additional generation east of the constraint is higher than the cost of additional generation west of the constraint.
PJM Central/East.
     24. In PJM Central/East during 2005, more than $19 billion of wholesale electricity was sold for resale to nearly 9 million retail customers.
B.
Relevant Product Market
     25. Wholesale electricity is a relevant product market and a line of commerce within the meaning of Section 7 of the Clayton Act. In the event of a small but significant increase in
 
the price of wholesale electricity, insufficient purchasers would switch away to make that increase unprofitable.
C.
Relevant Geographic Markets
     26. When the Eastern Interface is constrained, purchasers of wholesale electricity for use in PJM East have limited ability to turn to generation outside of PJM East. At such times, the amount of electricity that could be purchased outside PJM East is insufficient to make it unprofitable for generators located inside PJM East to seek a small but significant price increase.
     27. PJM East is a relevant geographic market and a section of the country within the meaning of Section 7 of the Clayton Act.
     28. When the 5004 and 5005 transmission lines are constrained, purchasers of wholesale electricity in PJM Central/East have limited ability to turn to generation outside of PJM Central/East. At such times, the amount of electricity that could be purchased outside PJM Central/East is insufficient to make it unprofitable for generators located inside PJM Central/East to seek a small but significant price increase.
     29. PJM Central/East is a relevant geographic market and a section of the country within the meaning of Section 7 of the Clayton Act.
 
A.
Market Shares and Concentration
     30. Exelon owns approximately 20 percent of the generating capacity in PJM East. PSEG owns approximately 29 percent of the generating capacity in PJM East. After the merger, Exelon would own approximately 49 percent of the total generating capacity in PJM East.
     31. Using a measure of market concentration called the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index ("HHI"), explained in Appendix A, Exelon's merger with PSEG would yield a post-merger HHI in PJM East of more than 2,700, representing an increase of more than 1,100.
     32. Exelon owns approximately 19 percent of the generating capacity in PJM Central/East. PSEG owns approximately 21 percent of the generating capacity in PJM Central/East. After the merger, Exelon would own approximately 40 percent of the total generating capacity in PJM Central/East.
     33. Exelon's merger with PSEG would yield a post-merger HHI in PJM Central/East of approximately 2,100, representing an increase of approximately 800.
B.
Effect of Transaction
     34. In addition to owning a significant share of overall generating capacity in PJM East and PJM Central/East, the merged firm will own generating units with a wide range of operating costs, including low-cost baseload units that provide the incentive to exercise market power, mid-merit units that provide the ability and incentive to exercise market power, and certain peaking units that provide additional ability to exercise market power in times of high
 
demand. The combination of Exelon's and PSEG's generating units would significantly enhance Exelon's ability and incentive to reduce output and raise prices in PJM East and PJM Central/East.
     35. The merger would enhance Exelon's ability to reduce output and raise price in PJM East and PJM Central/East by increasing its share of mid-merit and peaking capacity in those markets. With a greater share of mid-merit and peaking capacity, Exelon would more often be able to reduce output and raise clearing prices at relatively low cost to it by withholding capacity. Exelon could withhold capacity in several ways. For example, it could submit high offers in the PJM auctions for some of the capacity from its mid-merit units such that they are not all called on to produce electricity. By reducing its output, Exelon could force PJM to turn to more expensive units to meet demand, resulting in higher clearing prices in PJM East and PJM Central/East.
     36. The merger would enhance Exelon's incentive to reduce output and raise price in PJM East and PJM Central/East by increasing the amount of baseload and mid-merit capacity it owns in these markets. With a greater amount of baseload and mid-merit capacity, Exelon would more often find it profitable to reduce output and raise market-clearing prices by withholding capacity. For example, as clearing prices increase due to its withholding certain of its mid-merit capacity, Exelon would earn those higher prices on its expanded post-merger baseload capacity, which almost always runs, making it more likely that the benefit of increased revenues on its baseload capacity would outweigh the cost of withholding mid-merit capacity.
 
     37. Increasing Exelon's incentive and ability to profitably withhold output makes it likely that Exelon will exercise market power after its merger with PSEG, resulting in significant harm to competition and increased prices. Thus, the effect of the merger may be substantially to lessen competition in violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act.
     38. Entry into the wholesale electricity market through the addition of new generating capacity in PJM East or PJM Central/East or the addition of new transmission capacity that would relieve the constraints that limit the flow of electricity into PJM East or PJM Central/East would take many years, especially considering the necessary environmental, safety, and zoning approvals.
     39. Entry into the PJM East or PJM Central/East wholesale electricity market would not be timely, likely, and sufficient in its magnitude, character, and scope to deter or counteract an anticompetitive price increase.
     40. The effect of Exelon's proposed merger with PSEG, if it were consummated, may be substantially to lessen competition for wholesale electricity in PJM East and PJM Central/East in violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C.  18. Unless restrained, the transaction would likely have the following effects, among others:
 
     The United States requests:
     41. that Exelon's proposed merger with PSEG be adjudged a violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C.  18;
     42. that Defendants be permanently enjoined and restrained from carrying out the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 20, 2004, or from entering into or carrying out any agreement, understanding, or plan by which Exelon would merge with or acquire PSEG, its capital stock or any of its assets;
     43. that the United States be awarded the costs of this action; and
 
     44. that the United States have such other relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
DATED: June , 2006
          
 
     The term "HHI" means the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, a commonly accepted measure of market concentration. The HHI is calculated by squaring the market share of each firm competing in the market and then summing the resulting numbers. For example, for a market consisting of four firms with shares of 30, 30, 20, and 20 percent, the HHI is 2,600 (30 + 30 +20 + 20 = 2,600). The HHI takes into account the relative size and distribution of the firms in a market. It approaches zero when a market is occupied by a large number of firms of relatively equal size and reaches its maximum of 10,000 when a market is controlled by a single firm. The HHI increases both as the number of firms in the market decreases and as the disparity in size between those firms increases.
2
2
2
2
     Markets in which the HHI is between 1,000 and 1,800 are considered to be moderately concentrated, and markets in which the HHI is in excess of 1,800 points are considered to be highly concentrated.  1.51 (revised Apr. 8, 1997). Transactions that increase the HHI by more than 100 points in highly concentrated markets presumptively raise significant antitrust concerns under the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission.
See Horizontal Merger Guidelines
See id.
 
     I hereby certify that on June 22, 2006, I caused a copy of the foregoing Complaint, proposed Final Judgment, Hold Separate Stipulation and Order, and Plaintiff United States' Explanation of Procedures for Entry of the Final Judgment to be served on counsel for defendants in this matter in the manner set forth below:
     By electronic mail and hand delivery:
Counsel for Defendant Exelon Corporation John M. Nannes (DC Bar #195966) John H. Lyons (DC Bar #453191) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 1440 New York Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20005 Telephone: (202) 371-7500 Facsimile: (202) 661-9191
Counsel for Defendant Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated Douglas G. Green (DC Bar #183343) Steptoe & Johnson LLP 1330 Connecticut Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20036 Telephone: (202) 429-3000 Facsimile: (202) 429-3902


