FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20070727152237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
TEXT:
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in this Form 8-K is filed for Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) and its wholly owned subsidiary, PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K.
Item 4.02(a) Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
Energy Holdings
On July 26, 2007, Energy Holdings and the PSEG Audit Committee determined that the financial statements of Energy Holdings as of March 31, 2007 should no longer be relied upon. Energy Holdings determined that $207 million of its Senior Notes due in February 2008 had been erroneously classified as Long-Term Debt instead of Long-Term Debt due Within One Year on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2007. This error had no effect on Energy Holdings' results of operations, cash flows or margins.
Management and the PSEG Audit Committee have discussed this matter with Deloitte & Touche LLP, its independent registered public accounting firm.
For consistency, the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet of PSEG as of March 31, 2007 will also be restated to reflect the correction of the error at Energy Holdings discussed above, although the effect on PSEG's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet was not material. PSEG and Energy Holdings intend to file an amended Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007 as soon as practicable.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


