FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20070420165835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
          
[   ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
          
[   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
          
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b))
          
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
          
On April 20, 2007, Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) filed a Certificate of Amendment (the "Certificate of Amendment") to its Certificate of Incorporation with the State of New Jersey, effective upon filing, revising the following items as approved by its shareholders at its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders April 17, 2007:
Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock
from five hundred million to one billion.
Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the classification of the Board of Directors.
Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate cumulative voting.
Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate pre-emptive rights.
          
A full description with the text of the approved amendments are included in the Certificate of Amendment filed as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders and Item 5.03 Amendment to Articles of
Incorporation or Bylaws; change in Fiscal Year.
          
On April 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of PSEG approved, effective upon the date on which the Certificate of Amendment is filed with and effective under the laws of the State of New Jersey, amendments to the by-laws of PSEG to reflect the elimination of classification of the Board of Directors and the elimination of cumulative voting, to provide for the issuance of uncertified shares of PSEG common stock and preferred stock and to omit a reference to the 2005 Annual Meeting. The text of the approved amendments is reflected in the revised sections below:
SECTION 1.           (a)
Number, election and terms
. Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of the directors of the corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors but shall not be less than 3 nor more than 16. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation or until their respective successors are elected and qualified; provided, however, that directors elected to terms expiring at the annual meetings of stockholders to be held in 2009 and 2010, respectively, shall continue to hold office until their respective successors are elected and qualified. As used in these By-Laws, the term "entire Board" means the total number of directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
(c)
Newly created directorships and vacancies
. Except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
SECTION 1.           The meetings of the Stockholders shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be held at such place, within or without the State of New Jersey, as may be fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting.
Each annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of the class of directors for the ensuing year, and for the transaction of such other business as may be brought before the meeting, shall be held at such time, not more than 13 months after the last annual meeting, as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.           Except as herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation expressly provided to the contrary or as otherwise required by law or except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, all voting rights in the corporation shall be vested exclusively in the holders of Common Stock.
Except as herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation expressly provided to the contrary or as otherwise required by law or except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, at all meetings of stockholders the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of Common Stock held.
SECTION 1.           The shares of stock in this corporation may be represented by certificates or may be uncertificated shares. To the extent that certificates shall be issued for shares of stock in this corporation, such certificates shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or a Vice President, and either the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. If the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or registrar, who is not an officer or employee of the corporation, any and all other signatures may be facsimiles.
SECTION 2.           The shares of stock issued by this corporation shall be transferable only on the books of the corporation by the holder or owner thereof in person or by power of attorney, and if such shares are represented by a certificate, on surrender of the certificate therefor.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
Date: April 20, 2007

          
Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation, does hereby certify, pursuant to subsection 14A:9-4(3) of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, as amended, that:
          
1.           The name of this corporation is "Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated".
          
2.           The date of adoption of the amendments set forth in this Certificate of Amendment by the stockholders was April 17, 2007.
          
3.           The number of shares outstanding and entitled to vote on the amendments set forth in this Certificate of Amendment was 252,823,547 shares of Common Stock.
          
4.
(a)      Article 3 of the Certificate of Incorporation dated July 25, 1985, as amended by the Certificate of Amendment dated April 23, 1987 (which Certificate of Incorporation as so amended is hereinafter referred to as the "Charter"), of this corporation has been amended, by vote of the stockholders of this corporation, so as to increase the authorized Common Stock from 500,000,000 shares to 1,000,000,000 shares.
          
5. (a)     Article 4 of the Charter of this corporation has been amended, by vote of the stockholders of this corporation, to eliminate pre-emptive rights.
          
6. (a)    Article 6 of the Charter of this corporation has been amended, by vote of the stockholders of this corporation, so as to eliminate cumulative voting of Common Stock.
          
7. (a)    Article 10, of the Charter of this corporation has been amended, by vote of the stockholders of this corporation, to eliminate classification of the Board of Directors.
          
8.       The amendments of the Charter of this corporation, which were adopted by the stockholders of this corporation on April 17, 2007 as aforesaid, are as follows:
          
"3. STOCK:
          
SECTION 1. Capital Stock. The corporation shall have the authority to issue 1,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock, without par value, and 50,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value."
          
(b)
     Article 4. PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS was deleted and existing Articles 5 through 14 were renumbered as Articles 4 through 13.
          
(c)      Article
5. (formerly Article 6) CUMULATIVE VOTING was deleted and existing Articles 6 through 13 were renumbered as Articles 5 through 12.
          
(d)     Article 8. (formerly Article 10 and 9, respectively) BOARD OF DIRECTORS, Sections 1 and 3, were amended to read as follows:
          
"SECTION 1. Number, election and terms. Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 hereof relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of the directors of the corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or pursuant to the By-Laws of the corporation. Directors shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders or until their
respective successors are elected and qualified; provided, however, that directors elected to terms expiring at the annual meetings of stockholders to be held in 2009 and 2010, respectively, shall continue to hold office until the expiration of such terms or until their respective successors are elected and qualified."
          
"SECTION 3. Newly created directorships and vacancies. Except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 hereof relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualifications, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director."
          
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, said Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated has made this Certificate of Amendment this 20th day of April, 2007.
PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED
                                      __________________________________
By: ___________________________________________
Ralph Izzo
Chairman of the Board and President
Attest:
Edward J. Biggins, Jr.
Secretary
(Corporate Seal)


