FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20100505140850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition in this Form 8-K is furnished solely for Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG). The information contained in Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure in this combined Form 8-K is separately furnished, as noted, by PSEG, PSEG Power LLC (Power) and Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. Power and PSE&G each makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
 
PSEG
On May 5, 2010, PSEG announced unaudited financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the earnings release dated May 5, 2010 is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
PSEG, Power and PSE&G
On May 5, 2010, PSEG conducted an earnings call regarding its 2010 first quarter results. A copy of the slideshow presentation used during the earnings call is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: May 5, 2010
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: May 5, 2010
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: May 5, 2010
 

Exhibit 99
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
(May 5, 2010)  Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) reported today First Quarter 2010 Net Income and Income from Continuing Operations of $491 million or $0.97 per share as compared to $444 million or $0.88 per share for the First Quarter of 2009. Operating Earnings for the first quarter of 2010 were $425 million or $0.84 per share compared to the First Quarter of 2009 Operating Earnings of $482 million or $0.95 per share.
PSEG believes that the non-GAAP financial measure of "Operating Earnings" provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance of its businesses to help shareholders understand performance trends. Operating Earnings exclude the impact of returns/(losses) associated with NDT and MTM accounting. The table below provides a reconciliation of PSEG's Net Income to Operating Earnings (a non-GAAP measure) for the first quarter. See Attachment 10 for a complete list of items excluded from Income from Continuing Operations in the determination of Operating Earnings.
 
"The economy has shown signs of stabilizing, but pricing in our markets remains difficult" said Ralph Izzo, chairman, president and chief executive officer of PSEG. He went on to say, "our results were also hurt by a devastating rain and wind storm which struck New Jersey in March. However, the exemplary performance of our employeesalong with aid from other utilitiesresulted in customers returning to service within a week. Our ongoing focus on operational excellence, and our commitment to maintaining financial strength should support the long-term needs of our customers and shareholders in an evolving energy market. This focus continues to support our operating earnings guidance for 2010 of $3.00-$3.25 per share."
 
Operating Earnings Review and Outlook by Operating Subsidiary
See Attachment 5 for detail regarding the quarter-over-quarter reconciliations for each of PSEG's businesses.
PSEG Power
PSEG Power reported operating earnings of $298 million ($0.59 per share) for the first quarter of 2010 compared with operating earnings of $352 million ($0.69 per share) for the first quarter of 2009. PSEG Power's operating earnings for 2009 have been adjusted to reflect the inclusion of the results for the Texas gas-fired generating assets transferred from PSEG Energy Holdings during the fourth quarter of last year.
PSEG Power's results in the first quarter of 2010 were affected by weak power prices which more than offset a 7% increase in volume. The reduction in prices reduced Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.05 per share. This impact from lower pricing includes the effect of customer migration from BGS, which saw a slight increase over levels experienced in the fourth quarter of 2009. Customer migration away from BGS amounted to $0.01 per share. A decline in gas prices and volumes associated with BGSS and other trading related activity reduced Power's earnings during the quarter by $0.04 per share. Earnings comparisons were also hurt by an increase in O&M associated with planned major maintenance programs in Texas and New York which reduced earnings by $0.02 per share. A quarter-over-quarter decline in depreciation and financing costs improved Power's earnings comparisons by $0.03 per share. Results were also affected by a one-time increase in taxes associated with new health care legislation enacted in March 2010 which reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
The nuclear fleet continued its strong performance. The nuclear generation operated by PSEG Power performed at an average capacity factor of 97.2% during the quarter; including PSEG Power's 50% interest in the Peach Bottom units, the fleet operated at an average capacity factor during the quarter of 97.3%. Even though weather for the quarter was warmer than normal, a combination of cold weather and higher pricing in the months of January and February supported an increase in generation from the coal-fired fleet which operated at an average capacity factor during the quarter of 57%. The combined cycle fleet benefited from market opportunities, operating at an average capacity factor of 45% during the quarter versus a 35% capacity factor during the year ago quarter.
PSE&G
PSE&G reported operating earnings of $117 million ($0.23 per share) for the first quarter of 2010 compared with operating earnings of $123 million ($0.24 per share) for the first quarter of 2009.
The results for the quarter were affected by several factors. Warmer than normal weather during the quarter in contrast to colder than normal weather experienced in 2009's first quarter reduced the demand for gas heating, and lowered quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.02 per share. Heating Degree Days in the quarter were 3.8% below normal and 10.5% below 2009's first quarter. This decline in demand was partially offset by an increase in transmission revenues which added $0.01 per share. An improvement in demand related margin on electric sales to the commercial sector added $0.01 per share. Weather-normalized electric sales were flat versus year ago levels as a slight
increase in sales to residential customers was offset by a small decline in sales to commercial and industrial customers. The company experienced several storms during the quarter including extreme weather in March, resulting in an increase in operating and maintenance expense of $0.02 per share.
PSE&G continues to await a decision on its request to increase electric ($139.8 million) and gas ($64.4 million) rates for a total increase in revenue of $204 million. The company's request has been adjusted from its original request for an increase in revenue of $239 million. A decision is anticipated by mid-year.
PSE&G received the New Jersey BPU's written order in late April approving the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line. Subject to obtaining certain other necessary approvals, the company plans to begin construction of the line this summer between Hopatcong Borough and Roseland Township.
PSEG Energy Holdings
PSEG Energy Holdings reported operating earnings of $7 million ($0.01 per share) for the first quarter of 2010 versus operating earnings of $11 million ($0.02 per share) during the first quarter of 2009. The results for 2009 have been adjusted to reflect the transfer of the Texas gas-fired generating assets to PSEG Power during the fourth quarter of 2009.
The decline in operating earnings for the quarter reflects lower project earnings and lower gains on lease sales which together reduced quarter over quarter earnings by $0.01 per share.
Financings
PSE&G and PSEG Power completed a number of financings during the quarter which had the net effect of reducing the cost of financing for PSEG Power and extending out the maturity schedule of both companies' long-term debt.
Readers are cautioned that statements contained in this presentation about our and our subsidiaries' future performance, including future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects and all other statements that are not purely historical, are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance they will be achieved. The results or events predicted in these statements may differ materially from actual results or events. Factors which could cause results or events to differ from current expectations include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1A. Risk Factors, and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents address in further detail our business, industry issues and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in this presentation. In addition, any forward-looking statements included herein represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our internal estimates change, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws.
Attachment 1
 
 
:
Note 1
Income from Continuing Operations includes preferred stock dividends relating to PSE&G of $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009.
Attachment 2
 
 
Attachment 3
 
Attachment 4
 
Attachment 5
Attachment 6
 
Attachment 7
 
 
Attachment 8
 
 
Attachment 9
 
 
Attachment 10
 
 



