FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20121204163239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure in this combined Form 8-K is separately furnished, as noted, by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), PSEG Power LLC (Power) and Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. Power and PSE&G each makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 4, 2012, PSEG announced an estimate of PSE&G's costs associated with the restoration of its distribution and transmission system following the impacts of Superstorm Sandy and the subsequent Nor'easter. PSEG also reaffirmed its operating earnings guidance for 2012 of $2.25 to $2.50 per share noting that the guidance reflects the impacts of storm-related expenses at PSE&G but would exclude any storm-related costs for Power, which are still being assessed. A copy of the press release, dated December 4, 2012, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: December 4, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: December 4, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: December 4, 2012
 

Exhibit 99
 
For further information, contact:
 
December 4, 2012
PSEG estimates that the cost associated with the restoration of PSE&G's distribution and transmission system following the impact of Superstorm Sandy and the subsequent Nor'easter as approximately $250  $300 million.
Superstorm Sandy left 1.7 million of our electric customers without power during the course of the storm and caused severe damage to our transmission and distribution system throughout our service territory as well as to some of our generation infrastructure in the northern part of New Jersey.
Superstorm Sandy's strong winds and heavy rainfall resulted in a storm surge which caused the Hudson, Hackensack and Passaic rivers to overflow causing damage to switching stations, substations and generating infrastructure.
Over the two-week period following the storm, including the Nor'easter, we restored power to more customers than in any other storm in our history. We brought in 1,000 out-of-state line workers and tree trimmers in preparation for the storm and that number grew to more than 4,000 at the height of the restoration. As part of the storm restoration process, approximately 48,000 trees were removed or trimmed and we replaced/repaired over 2,400 utility poles.
Crews have continued working to make repairs permanent and return the system to its normal design. At the same time, we are analyzing the best ways to protect the system from this type of storm in the future.
The estimated cost of restoration of $250  $300 million associated with Superstorm Sandy includes both expenses and capital related to the restoration, and the Company expects at least 85% of those costs to be deferred or capitalized for future distribution or transmission recovery. The estimate does not include potential future costs to permanently repair PSE&G's damaged infrastructure or to modify the infrastructure to reduce the risk of damage of future storms.
PSEG continues to forecast operating earnings for 2012 of $2.25  $2.50 per share. The forecast recognizes the impact of storm-related costs to be expensed at PSE&G. However,
storm-related expenses at Power, which are still being assessed, will be treated as one-time in nature and excluded from operating earnings given the unusual nature of the storm on Power's operations. PSEG expects to provide investors with estimates for the costs at Power prior to the release of the Company's fourth-quarter earnings.
We intend to seek recovery for insured property damage at both PSE&G and at PSEG Power, however, no assurances can be given relative to the timing or amount of such recovery.
Readers are cautioned that statements contained in this presentation about our future performance, including future revenues, earnings, strategies, prospects, consequences and all other statements that are not purely historical, are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used herein, the words "anticipate", "intend", "estimate", "believe", "expect", "plan", "should", "hypothetical", "potential", "forecast", "project", variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, they are subject to risks and uncertainties and we can give no assurance they will be achieved. The results or developments projected or predicted in these statements may differ materially from what may actually occur. Factors which could cause results or events to differ from current expectations include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1A. Risk Factors, and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents address in further detail our business, industry issues and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in this presentation. In addition, any forward-looking statements included herein represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our internal estimates change, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws.


