FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20120521171534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure in this combined Form 8-K is separately furnished, as noted, by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) and PSEG Power LLC (Power). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. Power makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
PSEG and Power
On May 21, 2012, PSEG is meeting with investors. The attachment which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K represents updated information previously furnished on Form 8-K and available on our website www.pseg.com.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.     Selected presentation material updating information previously furnished on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: May 21, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: May 21, 2012
 



