FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20120620121359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 19, 2012, Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) elected Mr. Alfred Zollar to its Board of Directors, effective immediately, for a term ending at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Zollar has not been appointed to any committees at this time.
Mr. Zollar retired from IBM in 2011, after a 34-year executive career, during which he held leadership roles for all units within IBM's Software Group division. From 2004 to 2011, Mr. Zollar served as general manager for the Tivoli Software unit. After leaving IBM, Mr. Zollar founded AWZ Tech LLC, a business advisory firm, and is currently the managing partner at the firm. Mr. Zollar is currently a director of the Chubb Corporation.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
Date: June 20, 2012
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
(June 19, 2011  Newark, NJ)  Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) today announced that Alfred W. Zollar has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective immediately.
Zollar retired from IBM in 2011, after a 34-year executive career, during which he held leadership roles for all units within IBM's Software Group division. From 2004 to 2011, Zollar served as general manager for the Tivoli Software unit, a global, multi-billion dollar business. After leaving IBM, Zollar founded AWZ Tech LLC, a business advisory firm and is currently the managing partner at the firm.
"Al has tremendous expertise in managing complex and dynamic business ventures. He will bring a valuable perspective to our board of directors," said Ralph Izzo, PSEG's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Al brings tremendous business acumen and a great depth of digital knowledge to PSEG, which can be tapped as we look to improve customer service and make our operations more efficient."
Previously Zollar served as General Manager of the eServer iSeries segment (2003  2004), President and Chief Executive Officer of IBM Lotus Software (2000  2003) and General Manager of Network Computing Software (1996  2000). He joined IBM in 1977 as a Systems Engineer Trainee.
He is a member of the Executive Leadership Council and a lifetime member of the National Society of Black Engineers. He has been named as one of the "Top 100 Most Influential Blacks in America" by magazine, one of the "50 Most Important African-Americans in Technology" by magazine and one of the "100 Most Powerful Executives in Corporate America" by magazine. Zollar is a past fellow of the Advanced Leadership Initiative at Harvard University.
Savoy
US Black Engineer and Information Technology
Black Enterprise
Currently, Zollar sits on the board of directors the Chubb Corporation and is a member of the board of The Abyssinian Fund, a non-profit foundation working to expand economic development in Ethiopia. Zollar holds a master's degree in applied mathematics from the University of California at San Diego (UCSD) and was chosen as one of the "50 distinguished alumni" as part of the UCSD 50th anniversary celebration.
Public Service Enterprise Group (NYSE:PEG) is a publicly traded diversified energy company with annual revenues of more than $12 billion, and three principal subsidiaries: PSEG Power, Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G) and PSEG Energy Holdings. For more information, visit
www.pseg.com
.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Know all by these presents that the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints each of M. Courtney McCormick, Margie L. Williams and Anthony H. Battista, signing singly, the undersigned's true and lawful attorney-in-fact to:
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby grants to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to do and perform any and every act and thing whatsoever requisite, necessary, or proper to be done in the exercise of any of the rights and powers herein granted, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do it personally present, with full power of substitution or revocation, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such attorney-in-fact, or such attorney-in-fact's substitute or substitutes, shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue of this power of attorney and the rights and powers herein granted. The undersigned acknowledges that the foregoing attorneys-in-fact, in serving in such capacity at the request of the undersigned, are not assuming, nor are the Companies assuming, any of the undersigned's responsibilities to comply with Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This Power of Attorney shall remain in full force and effect until the undersigned is no longer required to file Forms 3, 4, and 5 with respect to the undersigned's holdings of and transactions in securities issued by the Companies, unless earlier revoked by the undersigned in a signed writing delivered to the foregoing attorneys-in-fact. The undersigned hereby revokes each other Power of Attorney heretofore executed by the undersigned appointing any other attorney-in-fact to do the things set forth herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Power of Attorney to be executed as of this 19
th
day of June, 2012.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
Know all by these presents that the undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints each of M. Courtney McCormick, Margie L. Williams and Anthony H. Battista, signing singly, the undersigned's true and lawful attorney-in-fact to:
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby grants to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to do and perform any and every act and thing whatsoever requisite, necessary, or proper to be done in the exercise of any of the rights and powers herein granted, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do it personally present, with full power of substitution or revocation, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such attorney-in-fact, or such attorney-in-fact's substitute or substitutes, shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue of this power of attorney and the rights and powers herein granted. The undersigned acknowledges that the foregoing attorneys-in-fact, in serving in such capacity at the request of the undersigned, are not assuming, nor are the Companies assuming, any of the undersigned's responsibilities to comply with Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This Power of Attorney shall remain in full force and effect until the undersigned is no longer required to file Forms 3, 4, and 5 with respect to the undersigned's holdings of and transactions in securities issued by the Companies, unless earlier revoked by the undersigned in a signed writing delivered to the foregoing attorneys-in-fact. The undersigned hereby revokes each other Power of Attorney heretofore executed by the undersigned appointing any other attorney-in-fact to do the things set forth herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Power of Attorney to be executed as of this 6
th
day of June, 2012.
 


