FILE:PEG/PEG-8K-20121126140259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers in this combined Form 8-K is filed solely for Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG). The information contained in Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits in this combined Form 8-K is separately filed, as noted, by PSEG, PSEG Power LLC (Power) and Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is provided by such company on its own behalf and in connection with its respective Form 8-K. Power and PSE&G each makes representations only as to itself and makes no other representations whatsoever as to any other company.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
PSEG
On November 20, 2012, we entered into an amendment to the employment agreement dated August 26, 2009, with J.A. Bouknight, Jr., Executive Vice President and General Counsel. The amendment provides that any award of performance units granted to Mr. Bouknight in 2013 under our 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan will fully vest, without proration, if Mr. Bouknight's date of retirement is on or after December 31, 2013, or if his employment is terminated by reason of disability or death, and any such award due will be made after the completion of the three-year performance cycle applicable to each grant. No other provisions of the employment agreement were changed.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
PSEG, Power and PSE&G
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: November 26, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: November 26, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
Date: November 26, 2012
 

Exhibit 10
This is an addendum to the agreement between J.A. Bouknight and the Company dated August 26, 2009 (the "Agreement").
Page 2 of the Agreement shall be amended by adding the following to the end of the second paragraph thereof:
Any award of Performance Shares granted to you in 2013 will fully vest (without proration) if your date of retirement is on or after December 31, 2013, or if your employment is terminated by reason of disability or death, and any such award due will be made after the completion of the three year performance cycle applicable to each grant.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign this Addendum to the Agreement and return it to Margaret M. Pego, Senior Vice President - Human Resources and Chief Human Resources Officer.
 


