ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes. This section provides additional information regarding Discovery Communications, Inc.s (Discovery, Company, we, us, or our) businesses, recent developments, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, contractual commitments and critical accounting policies. CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our business, marketing and operating strategies, integration of acquired businesses, new service offerings, financial prospects and anticipated sources and uses of capital. Words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. The following include some but not all of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: the inability of advertisers or affiliates to remit payment to us in a timely manner or at all; general economic and business conditions and industry trends, including the timing of, and spending on, feature film, television and television commercial production; spending on domestic and foreign television advertising and foreign first run and existing content libraries; the regulatory and competitive environment of the industries in which we, and the entities in which we have interests, operate; continued consolidation of the broadband distribution and movie studio industries; uncertainties inherent in the development of new business lines and business strategies; integration of acquired operations; uncertainties associated with product and service development and market acceptance, including the development and provision of programming for new television and telecommunications technologies; changes in the distribution and viewing of television programming, including the expanded deployment of personal video recorders, video on demand and internet protocol television and their impact on television advertising revenue; rapid technological changes; future financial performance, including availability, terms and deployment of capital; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and political unrest in international markets; the ability of suppliers and vendors to deliver products, equipment, software and services; the outcome of any pending or threatened litigation; availability of qualified personnel; the possibility of an industry wide strike or other job action affecting a major entertainment industry union, or the duration of any existing strike or job action; changes in, or failure or inability to comply with, government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and adverse outcomes from regulatory proceedings; changes in the nature of key strategic relationships with partners and venture partners; competitor responses to our products and services and the products and services of the entities in which we have interests; threatened terrorist attacks and ongoing military action in the Middle East and other parts of the world; reduced access to capital markets or significant increases in costs to borrow; and a failure to secure affiliate agreements or renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms. For additional risk factors, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. These forward looking statements and such risks, uncertainties and other factors speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward looking statement contained herein, to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto, or any other change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a global nonfiction media and entertainment company that provides programming across multiple distribution platforms, with over 120 television networks offering customized programming in over 40 languages in the U.S. and over 180 other countries and territories. Our global portfolio of networks includes prominent television brands such as Discovery Channel, one of the first nonfiction networks and our most widely distributed global brand, TLC, Animal Planet, Science Channel and Investigation Discovery. 25 Table of Contents We also have a diversified portfolio of websites and other digital media services, develop and sell curriculum based products and services, and provide postproduction audio services. In the U.S., we own and operate nine fully distributed networks. We also have interests in OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN) and The Hub, which are networks operated as 50 50 ventures. Our objective is to invest in content for these networks to build viewership, optimize distribution revenue and capture advertising sales and to create or reposition additional branded channels and businesses that can sustain long term growth and occupy a desired programming niche with strong consumer appeal. Outside of the U.S., we have one of the largest and most extensive international distribution platforms with two to thirteen channels in more than 180 countries and territories. Our objective is to maintain a leadership position in nonfiction entertainment in international markets and build additional branded channels and businesses that can sustain long term growth. In 2010, we began the international rollout of TLC as a female targeted global flagship brand to complement Discovery Channel, which is a leading male focused brand in most markets throughout the world. The TLC network was launched in over 30 countries and territories in Europe and Asia in 2010, with additional launches planned for 2011. Our strategy is to optimize the distribution, ratings and profit potential of each of our branded networks. In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenue for our branded networks, we are extending content distribution across new distribution platforms, including brand aligned websites, mobile devices, video on demand (VOD) and broadband channels, which provide promotional platforms for our television programming and serve as additional outlets for advertising and affiliate sales. Our media content is designed to target key audience demographics and the popularity of our programming creates a reason for advertisers to purchase commercial time on our channels. Audience ratings are a key driver in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, direct to home (DTH) satellite operators and other content distributors to deliver our programming to their customers. We classify our operations in three segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic cable and satellite television networks, websites and other digital media services; International Networks, consisting primarily of international cable and satellite television networks and websites; and Education and Other, consisting principally of curriculum based product and service offerings and postproduction audio services. Effective January 1, 2010, we realigned our commerce business, which sells and licenses Discovery branded merchandise, from the Commerce, Education, and Other reporting segment into the U.S. Networks reporting segment in order to better align the management of our online properties. In connection with this realignment we changed the name of our Commerce, Education, and Other reporting segment to Education and Other. The information for periods prior to 2010 in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been recast to reflect the realignment. We were formed in connection with Discovery Holding Company (DHC) and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership (Advance/Newhouse) combining their respective ownership interests in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC (DCH) and exchanging those interests with and into Discovery, which was consummated on September 17, 2008 (the Discovery Formation). Prior to the Discovery Formation, DCH was a stand alone private company, which was owned approximately 66 2/3% by DHC and 33  1/3% by Advance/Newhouse. As a result of this transaction we became the successor reporting entity to DHC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additional information regarding the Discovery Formation is set forth in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K is presented as though the Discovery Formation was consummated on January 1, 2008. U.S. Networks U.S. Networks, which is our largest segment, owns and operates nine national television networks principally throughout the U.S., including prominent television brands such as Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet, as well as a portfolio of websites and other digital media services. Through December 31, 2010, we also owned and operated the Discovery Health network. On January 1, 2011 we contributed the Discovery Health network including affiliate relationships with cable operators and cable satellite providers, content licenses and website user information to OWN, which is a 50 50 venture we formed with Harpo, Inc. (Harpo) in 2008. Effective with the contribution, the network was rebranded and is now operated by the venture. Our results of operations included the gross revenues and expenses related to the Discovery Health network through December 31, 2010. We account for our interest in the OWN venture using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, effective with the contribution on January 1, 2011 the gross revenues and expenses related to the Discovery Health network are no longer consolidated in our operating results. Through December 31, 2010, we recognized 100% of OWNs net losses in our results of operations. Beginning January 1, 2011, any future net losses generated by OWN will be allocated to us and Harpo based on our proportionate ownership interests, which were 50 50 on January 1, 26 Table of Contents 2011. Any future net income generated by OWN will initially be allocated to us up to the amount of net losses we previously recognized prior to the contributions. Any excess net income generated by OWN will be allocated to us and Harpo based on our proportionate ownership interests. As a result of our contribution and subsequent deconsolidation of the Discovery Health network, we may recognize a non recurring gain or loss during the quarter ending March 31, 2011 for the difference between the fair values and book values of our retained interests in the assets we contributed. As of the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10 K, determination of the fair value of the contributed assets has not been completed. U.S. Networks also owns an interest in The Hub, a 50 50 venture between us and Hasbro, Inc. (Hasbro). On May 22, 2009, we sold a 50% interest in the U.S. Discovery Kids network to Hasbro (the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction). Both parties then contributed their interests in the U.S. Discovery Kids network to the newly formed venture, upon which we no longer consolidate the network in our operating results. The network continued to operate as the Discovery Kids network until October 10, 2010, at which time it was rebranded as The Hub. We account for our interest in The Hub using the equity method of accounting. U.S. Networks derives revenues primarily from distribution fees and advertising sales, which comprised 44% and 52% of revenues for this segment for 2010, respectively. During 2010, Discovery Channel, TLC, and Animal Planet collectively generated 75% of U.S. Networks total revenues. U.S. Networks earns distribution fees under multi year affiliation agreements with cable operators, DTH satellite operators and other distributors of television programming. Distribution fees are based on the number of subscribers receiving our programming. Upon the launch of a new channel, we may initially pay distributors to carry such channel (launch incentives), or may provide the channel to the distributor for free for a predetermined length of time. Launch incentives are amortized on a straight line basis as a reduction of revenues over the term of the affiliation agreement. U.S. Networks generates advertising revenues by selling commercial time on our networks and websites. The number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our programming and our ability to sell commercial time over a group of channels are key drivers of advertising revenue. U.S. Networks largest single cost is the cost of programming, including production costs for original programming. U.S. Networks amortizes the cost of capitalized content rights based on the proportion that current estimated revenues bear to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues, which results in either an accelerated method or a straight line method over the estimated useful lives. International Networks Outside of the U.S., we have one of the largest international distribution platforms with two to thirteen channels in more than 180 countries and territories around the world. International Networks owns and operates a portfolio of television networks, led by Discovery Channel and Animal Planet, which are distributed in virtually every pay television market in the world through an infrastructure that includes operational centers in London, Singapore and Miami. In 2010, we began the international rollout of TLC as a female targeted global flagship, which was launched in over 30 countries and territories in Europe and Asia in 2010, with additional launches planned for 2011. Through December 31, 2010, International Networks regional operations reported into four regions: United Kingdom (U.K.); Europe (excluding the U.K.), Middle East and Africa (EMEA); Asia Pacific; and Latin America. Effective January 1, 2011, International Networks reporting structure was realigned into the following four regions: Western Europe, which includes the U.K. and western European countries; Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, (CEEMEA); Latin America; and Asia Pacific. At December 31, 2010, International Networks operated over 130 unique distribution feeds in over 40 languages with channel feeds customized according to language needs and advertising sales opportunities. In November 2010, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in substantially all of the international Animal Planet and Liv (formerly People + Arts) networks from venture partner BBC Worldwide for $152 million, giving us 100% ownership of these networks. Previously, these networks were operated as 50 50 ventures between us and BBC Worldwide. The ventures qualified as variable interest entities pursuant to certain accounting standards and we concluded we were the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, we consolidated the Animal Planet and Liv networks prior to this transaction. As we previously consolidated these ventures, the acquisition did not impact our results of operations. With this acquisition we wholly own and operate most of our international television networks except for various channels in Japan and Canada, which are operated by ventures with strategically important local partners. Additional information regarding the acquisition of the interests in the international Animal Planet and Liv ventures is disclosed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Similar to our U.S. Networks segment, the primary sources of revenues for International Networks are distribution fees and advertising sales, and the primary cost is programming. International Networks executes a localization strategy by offering shared programming with U.S. Networks, customized content and localized schedules via our distribution feeds. For 2010, distribution 27 Table of Contents revenues represented approximately 61% of the segments operating revenues. International television markets vary in their stages of development. Some, notably the U.K., are more advanced digital multi channel television markets, while others remain in the analog environment with varying degrees of investment from operators in expanding channel capacity or converting to digital. Advertising sales are also important to the segments financial success, representing 34% of the segments total revenues for 2010. In developing pay television markets, we expect advertising revenue growth will result from subscriber growth, our localization strategy and the shift of advertising spending from broadcast to pay television. In relatively mature markets, such as Western Europe, the growth dynamic is changing. Increased market penetration and distribution are unlikely to drive rapid growth in those markets. Instead, growth in advertising sales will come from increasing viewership and advertising pricing on our existing pay television networks and launching new services, either in pay television or free television environments. International Networks largest cost is for programming. Our International Networks segment maximizes the use of shared programming from our U.S. Networks segment. We also provide local programming that is tailored to individual market preferences. Such programming is shared from our U.S. Networks segment or acquired through third party production companies through production, coproduction, or license arrangements. International Networks amortizes the cost of capitalized content rights based on the proportion that current estimated revenues bear to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues, which results in either an accelerated method or a straight line method over the estimated useful lives. On September 1, 2010, we sold our Antenna Audio business for net proceeds of $24 million in cash, which resulted in a $9 million gain, net of taxes. Antenna Audio provides audio, multimedia and mobile tours for museums, exhibitions, historic sites and visitor attractions around the world. On February 17, 2010, we acquired all interests in an uplink facility in London, including its employees and operations, for $35 million in cash. The uplink center is used to deliver our networks in the U.K. and Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and has been integrated into the International Networks segment. The acquisition will provide us with more flexibility to expand the distribution of our content. The uplink facility has been included in our operating results since the date of acquisition. Education and Other Our education business is focused on our direct to school K 12 online streaming distribution subscription services, as well as our professional development services for teachers, benchmark student assessment services and publishing hardcopy content through a network of distribution channels including online, catalog and dealers. Our education business also participates in growing corporate partnerships, global brand and content licensing business with leading non profits, foundations, trade associations and Fortune 500 companies. Other businesses primarily include postproduction audio services that are provided to major motion picture studios, independent producers, broadcast networks, cable channels, advertising agencies and interactive producers. Other Developments Variable Interest Entities Effective January 1, 2010, we retrospectively adopted new accounting guidance for all interests in VIEs, which changed our accounting for the OWN and Animal Planet Japan (APJ) ventures from consolidation to the equity method. Accordingly, we have recast the 2009 and 2008 financial information to reflect the change in accounting from consolidation to the equity method. Prior to the adoption of the new guidance, net losses generated by OWN were allocated 50 50 between us and our venture partner. Effective with the adoption of this accounting standard, we recorded 100% of OWNs net losses under the equity method of accounting in our results of operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008 as we had assumed all funding requirements for OWN and our venture partner had not yet contributed certain assets to OWN. The increase in the allocation of OWNs net losses to us resulted in reductions of $20 million, $11 million and zero to our results of operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Effective with the contribution of assets to OWN on January 1, 2011, any future net income generated by OWN will initially be allocated to us up to the amount of net losses previously recognized by us prior to the contributions. Any excess net income generated by OWN will be allocated to us and Harpo based on our proportionate ownership interests. 28 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2010 vs. 2009 The 2009 financial information has been recast so that the basis of presentation is consistent with that of our 2010 financial information. This recast reflects (i) the adoption of the recent accounting guidance that amends the model for determining whether an entity should consolidate a VIE, which resulted in the deconsolidation of the OWN and APJ ventures (Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements), (ii) the results of operations of our Antenna Audio business as discontinued operations (Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements), and (iii) the realignment of our commerce business, which is now reported as a component of our U.S. Networks segment whereas it was previously reported as a component of our Commerce, Education and Other segment (Note 21 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). The OWN venture was previously included in our U.S. Networks segment. The APJ venture and the Antenna Audio business were previously included in our International Networks segment. Consolidated Results of Operations 2010 vs. 2009 Our consolidated results of operation for 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2010 2009 (Unfavorable) (recast) Revenues: Distribution $ 1,807 $ 1,698 6 % Advertising 1,645 1,427 15 % Other 321 333 (4 )% Total revenues 3,773 3,458 9 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization 1,073 1,044 (3 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,185 1,188 % Depreciation and amortization 130 152 14 % Restructuring and impairment charges 25 52 52 % Gains on dispositions (252 ) (100 )% 2,413 2,184 (10 )% Operating income 1,360 1,274 7 % Interest expense, net (203 ) (248 ) 18 % Loss on extinguishment of debt (136 ) % Other (expense) income, net (86 ) 13 NM Income from continuing operations, before income taxes 935 1,039 (10 )% Provision for income taxes (288 ) (469 ) 39 % Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 647 570 14 % Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 22 (6 ) NM Net income 669 564 19 % Less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (16 ) (15 ) (7 )% Net income attributable to Discovery Communications, Inc. 653 549 19 % Stock dividends to preferred interests (1 ) (8 ) 88 % Net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders $ 652 $ 541 21 % NM not meaningful. Revenues Distribution revenues increased $109 million, which was driven by contractual rate increases, subscriber growth and reduced amortization of deferred launch incentives. These increases were partially offset by an $18 million decline for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009 and changes in our channel mix in EMEA. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not significantly impact distribution revenues. 29 Table of Contents Advertising revenues increased $218 million, which was attributable to increased pricing, higher inventory utilization, and greater audience delivery. These increases were partially offset by the absence of a $6 million settlement of a prior contract dispute in 2009 and $2 million of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Other revenues decreased $12 million as a result of an affiliate and advertising sales representation agreement ending in May 2010, transitioning our commerce business model in early 2009, and lower DVD sales at a consolidated venture. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the number of subscriptions to our online curriculum based education tools. Other revenues were not significantly impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, production costs, distribution costs and sales commissions, increased $29 million. The increase in costs of revenues was due to higher content expense, sales commissions, and license fees for music rights. Content expense increased $14 million, reflecting our continued investment in programming. Sales commissions increased $17 million due to improved advertising sales. The increase in license fees for music rights was due to the absence of a $6 million reversal of liabilities recorded in 2009 as a result of changes in estimates for amounts accrued in prior periods. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009, an $11 million decline due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009, lower costs related to DVD sales, and a $4 million benefit from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, decreased $3 million. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was attributable to a decline in stock based compensation and a $9 million benefit from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Stock based compensation decreased $46 million driven by a decline in the number of outstanding cash settled awards, which was partially offset by an increase in the fair value of outstanding awards and an increase in the number of stock settled awards. These decreases were partially offset by higher marketing and personnel costs due to increased promotion of our programs, expanded distribution of our international networks, and growth in our education business. The most significant portion of our stock based compensation expense for 2010 and 2009 was related to cash settled awards. We do not intend to grant additional cash settled awards, except as may be required by contract or to employees in countries in which personnel are not allowed to receive or hold rights to receive ownership interests. Additionally, PRSUs and RSUs became a more significant component of the compensation to certain executives. Accordingly, awards such as stock options, PRSUs, and RSUs continue to become a more significant portion of our outstanding awards. Additional information regarding the accounting for our stock based awards is disclosed in Note 2 and Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $22 million. The decrease was due primarily to lower property and equipment and finite lived intangible asset balances, which was attributable to certain assets becoming fully amortized and impairment charges recorded in prior periods. Restructuring and Impairment Charges In 2010, we recorded $25 million of restructuring and impairment charges, which was comprised of $14 million of exit and restructuring charges and an $11 million noncash impairment charge. Exit and restructuring charges for 2010 related to the realignment of our reporting regions at our International Networks segment, cost reduction initiatives in the U.S., and the contribution of the Discovery Health network to OWN. The charges primarily consisted of severance costs associated with the elimination of certain positions and contract termination and other associated costs. The goodwill impairment charge was due to lower than expected operating performance at our postproduction audio business, which is a component of our Education and Other segment. During 2009, we recorded $52 million of restructuring and impairment charges, which consisted of $26 million related to exit and restructuring charges and $26 million of noncash impairment charges. The exit and restructuring charges incurred during 2009 related to realignments of portions of our operations to better align our organizational structure with our strategic priorities, the transition of our commerce business to a licensing model, and cost reduction initiatives. The realignment reflected changes to our organizational structure in an effort to centralize certain functions that were previously performed by various departments. The charges consisted of severance costs associated with the elimination of certain positions and contract termination and other associated costs. The impairment charges related to certain intangible assets and software at our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments. 30 Table of Contents Gains on Dispositions In connection with the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction, we recorded a pretax gain of $252 million. The gain comprised $125 million for the 50% interest sold to the venture partner and $127 million as a result of stepping up our basis for the 50% interest contributed to the venture. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net decreased $45 million, which was primarily due to changes in the designation and termination of interest rate swaps as a result of refinancing most of our debt in June 2010. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In June 2010, we refinanced most of our outstanding debt. In connection with the repayment of $2.9 billion of existing debt outstanding under our term loans and private senior notes, we recognized a $136 million loss on extinguishment of debt, which included $114 million for make whole premiums, $12 million of noncash write offs of unamortized deferred financing costs and $10 million for the repayment of the original issue discount from our term loans. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net consisted of the following (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (recast) Unrealized gains on derivative instruments, net $ 13 $ 26 Realized losses on derivative instruments, net (42 ) (6 ) Loss from equity investees, net (57 ) (24 ) Realized gains on sales of investments 15 Other, net 2 Total other (expense) income, net $ (86 ) $ 13 The change in net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments was primarily due to changes in the designation and termination of interest rate swaps as a result of refinancing most of our debt in June 2010. The increase in losses from equity method investments was primarily attributable to OWN, which reflects selling, general and administrative costs incurred prior to the launch of the new network on January 1, 2011. In 2009 we sold investments for $22 million, which resulted in pretax gains of $15 million. Provision for Income Taxes For 2010 and 2009, our provisions for income taxes were $288 million and $469 million and the effective tax rates were 31% and 45%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2010 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to the reversal of a $28 million foreign tax reserve as a result of a foreign tax authority completing its tax audit and providing us notification that certain tax years will not be adjusted and production activity deductions, which were partially offset by state taxes. Our effective tax rate for 2009 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to a permanent difference on the $252 million gain from the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction and state income taxes, which were partially offset by deductions for domestic production activities and the release of a valuation allowance of $12 million. 31 Table of Contents Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes On September 1, 2010, we sold our Antenna Audio business for net proceeds of $24 million in cash, which resulted in a $9 million gain, net of taxes. We previously recorded a $12 million gain, net of taxes, in our results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. However, during the quarter ended December 31, 2010 we recorded an adjustment to a deferred tax asset, which reduced the gain by $3 million. Antenna Audio, which provides audio, multimedia and mobile tours for museums, exhibitions, historic sites and visitor attractions around the world, was a component of our International Networks segment. On September 27, 2010, we received a tax refund, which eliminated a $12 million obligation to repay amounts to AMC, which has been recorded as a benefit in 2010 in income from discontinued operations. Summary financial information for discontinued operations was as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Revenues $ 31 $ 47 Income (loss) from the operations of discontinued operations, before income taxes $ 1 $ (9 ) Income (loss) from the operations of discontinued operations, net of taxes $ 13 $ (6 ) Gains on dispositions, net of taxes 9 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes $ 22 $ (6 ) Income (loss) per share from discontinued operations available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders, basic and diluted $ 0.05 $ (0.01 ) Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 425 423 Diluted 429 425 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests The increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was due to higher operating results at consolidated entities that are not wholly owned. Stock Dividends to Preferred Interests We declared noncash stock dividends of $1 million and $8 million to our preferred stock shareholder during 2010 and 2009, respectively. We released approximately 43,000 and 254,000 of our Series A common stock and approximately 60,000 and 211,000 of our Series C common stock from escrow during 2010 and 2009, respectively, in payment of most of the dividends declared. We are contractually obligated to issue the dividends upon the issuance of our common stock to settle the exercise of stock options and stock appreciation rights that we assumed in connection with our formation on September 17, 2008. The decrease in dividends declared was due to a lower number of stock options and stock appreciation rights being exercised. Segment Results of Operations 2010 vs. 2009 We evaluate the operating performance of our segments based on financial measures such as revenues and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization (Adjusted OIBDA). Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark to market stock based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) certain impairment charges, and (vi) gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions. We use this measure to assess operating results and performance of our segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each segment. We believe Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses and also provides investors a measure to analyze the operating performance of each segment against historical data. We exclude mark to market stock based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, impairment charges, and gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility or non recurring nature. We also exclude the depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets and deferred launch incentives as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. Adjusted OIBDA should be considered in addition to, but not 32 Table of Contents a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flows provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, certain corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate segment performance based upon decisions made directly by segment executives. Additional financial information for our segments and geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA was calculated as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable/(Unfavorable) 2010 2009 (recast) Revenues: U.S. Networks $ 2,363 $ 2,170 9 % International Networks 1,251 1,131 11 % Education and Other 153 148 3 % Corporate and inter segment eliminations 6 9 (33 )% Total revenues 3,773 3,458 9 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization(1) (1,073 ) (1,044 ) (3 )% Selling, general and administrative(1) (1,043 ) (983 ) (6 )% Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives(2) 42 55 (24 )% Adjusted OIBDA $ 1,699 $ 1,486 14 % (1) Costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses exclude mark to market stock based compensation, depreciation and amortization, restructuring and impairment charges, and gains on dispositions. (2) Amortization of deferred launch incentives are included as a reduction of distribution revenues for reporting in accordance with GAAP, but are excluded from Adjusted OIBDA. The following table presents our Adjusted OIBDA, by segment, with a reconciliation of total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA to consolidated operating income (in millions). % Change Year Ended December 31, Favorable/ 2010 2009 (Unfavorable) (recast) Adjusted OIBDA: U.S. Networks $ 1,365 $ 1,229 11 % International Networks 545 445 22 % Education and Other 15 16 (6 )% Corporate and inter segment eliminations (226 ) (204 ) (11 )% Total Adjusted OIBDA 1,699 1,486 14 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (42 ) (55 ) 24 % Mark to market stock based compensation (142 ) (205 ) 31 % Depreciation and amortization (130 ) (152 ) 14 % Restructuring and impairment charges (25 ) (52 ) 52 % Gains on dispositions 252 (100 )% Operating income $ 1,360 $ 1,274 7 % 33 Table of Contents U.S. Networks The following table presents, for our U.S. Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2010 2009 (Unfavorable) (recast) Revenues: Distribution $ 1,047 $ 982 7 % Advertising 1,222 1,082 13 % Other 94 106 (11 )% Total revenues 2,363 2,170 9 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (573 ) (544 ) (5 )% Selling, general and administrative (432 ) (418 ) (3 )% Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 7 21 (67 )% Adjusted OIBDA 1,365 1,229 11 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (7 ) (21 ) 67 % Mark to market stock based compensation (1 ) 100 % Depreciation and amortization (21 ) (30 ) 30 % Restructuring and impairment charges (3 ) (31 ) 90 % Gains on dispositions 252 (100 )% Operating income $ 1,334 $ 1,398 (5 )% Revenues Distribution revenues increased $65 million, primarily due to annual contractual rate increases for fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, an increase in paying subscribers, principally for networks carried on the digital tier, and decreased amortization of deferred launch incentives. These increases were partially offset by an $18 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009. Advertising revenues increased $140 million, which was driven by increased pricing in the upfront and scatter markets, higher sellouts, and greater audience delivery, reflecting the improved advertising market. Other revenues decreased $12 million, which was attributable to lower affiliate and advertising sales representation services for third party networks and commerce sales. The decrease in affiliate and advertising sales representation services was the result of an agreement ending in May 2010. The decline in commerce sales was due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, sales commissions, distribution costs and production costs, increased $29 million. The increase in costs of revenues was driven by higher content expense and sales commissions. Content expense increased $28 million due to continued investments in our programming. Sales commissions were $7 million higher due to improved advertising sales. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009 and an $11 million decline due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, increased $14 million. Increased selling, general and administrative expenses were attributable to higher marketing costs, which were partially offset by lower employee costs as a result of restructurings that eliminated certain positions. 34 Table of Contents Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $136 million, primarily due to increased advertising sales, growth in distribution revenues and lower employee costs. These improvements were partially offset by increased content expense, higher sales commissions, increased marketing costs, a decline in affiliate and advertising sales representation services, the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009, and a $10 million decline for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009. International Networks The following table presents, for our International Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable/(Unfavorable) 2010 2009 (recast) Revenues: Distribution $ 760 $ 716 6 % Advertising 422 344 23 % Other 69 71 (3 )% Total revenues 1,251 1,131 11 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (405 ) (403 ) % Selling, general and administrative (336 ) (317 ) (6 )% Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 35 34 3 % Adjusted OIBDA 545 445 22 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (35 ) (34 ) (3 )% Depreciation and amortization (39 ) (38 ) (3 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (9 ) (14 ) 36 % Operating income $ 462 $ 359 29 % Revenues Distribution revenues increased $44 million, which was attributable to growth in the number of paying subscribers in Latin America and an increase in average contractual rates for fees charged to operators who distribute our networks in the U.K. Subscribers increased due to growth in pay television services in those regions. These increases were partially offset by changes in our channel mix in EMEA. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not significantly impact distribution revenues. Advertising revenues, which increased $78 million, were higher in all international regions in which we operate. The increase in advertising revenues was driven by increased pricing in the U.K. Advertising revenues also increased in Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific as a result of higher sellouts and audience delivery. Higher sellouts reflect improvements in the advertising market. Increased viewership was driven by growth in pay television services in international markets. These increases were partially offset by the absence of a $6 million settlement of prior contract disputes in 2009 and $2 million of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, distribution costs, sales commissions and production costs, increased $2 million. The increase in costs of revenues was due to higher sales commissions and license fees for music rights. Sales commissions increased $8 million due to improved advertising sales. The increase in license fees for music rights was due to the absence of a $6 million reversal of liabilities in 2009 as a result of changes in estimates for amounts accrued in prior periods. These increases were partially offset by a $13 million decline in content expense, reflecting a decline in write offs, and a $4 million benefit from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, increased $19 million. Increased selling, general and administrative expenses were attributable to the international rollout of the TLC network, expansion in Eastern Europe, and investments in Latin America, which 35 Table of Contents increased employee and marketing costs. These increases were partially offset by $9 million of favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $100 million, primarily due to increased advertising sales, growth in distribution revenues, lower content expense, and a $10 million benefit from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These improvements were partially offset by increased employee and marketing costs, higher sales commissions, and an increase in license fees for music rights. Education and Other The following table presents, for our Education and Other segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating (loss) income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable/(Unfavorable) 2010 2009 (recast) Revenues: Advertising $ 1 $ 1 % Other 152 147 3 % Total revenues 153 148 3 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (91 ) (90 ) (1 )% Selling, general and administrative (47 ) (42 ) (12 )% Adjusted OIBDA 15 16 (6 )% Depreciation and amortization (6 ) (6 ) % Restructuring and impairment charges (11 ) (2 ) NM Operating (loss) income $ (2 ) $ 8 NM NM not meaningful. Revenues Other revenues increased $5 million, primarily due to continued growth in subscriptions for access to an online streaming service that includes a suite of curriculum based tools, which was partially offset by a decline in postproduction audio services. The decline in postproduction audio services was driven by the overall decline in the DVD marketplace. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist principally of production costs, royalty payments, and content expense, were consistent between 2010 and 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, occupancy and back office support fees and marketing costs, increased $5 million due to higher employee costs as a result of hiring additional personnel to support the growth in our education business. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA decreased $1 million, primarily due to a decline in postproduction audio services and increased employee costs, which were partially offset by continued growth in subscriptions to curriculum based tools offered through our online streaming services. 36 Table of Contents Corporate and Inter segment Eliminations The following table presents, for our unallocated corporate amounts, revenues, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating loss (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable/(Unfavorable) 2010 2009 Revenues: Other $ 6 $ 9 (33 )% Total revenues 6 9 (33 )% Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (4 ) (7 ) 43 % Selling, general and administrative (228 ) (206 ) (11 )% Adjusted OIBDA (226 ) (204 ) (11 )% Mark to market stock based compensation (142 ) (204 ) 30 % Depreciation and amortization (64 ) (78 ) 18 % Restructuring and impairment charges (2 ) (5 ) 60 % Operating loss $ (434 ) $ (491 ) 12 % Corporate operations primarily consist of executive management, administrative support services, a consolidated venture, and substantially all of our stock based compensation. Consistent with our segment reporting, corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate business segment performance based upon decisions made directly by business segment executives. Other revenues and costs of revenues both declined $3 million as a result of lower DVD sales at a consolidated venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $22 million, which was primarily attributable to a $17 million increase in stock based compensation expense for equity settled awards such as stock options, PRSUs and RSUs that received fixed accounting. The increase in stock based compensation was driven by an increase in the number of outstanding awards and the fair value of awards granted during 2010 due to increases in the price of our Series A common stock. 37 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2009 vs. 2008 The 2009 and 2008 financial information has been recast so that the basis of presentation is consistent with that of our 2010 financial information. This recast reflects (i) the adoption of the recent accounting guidance that amends the model for determining whether an entity should consolidate a VIE, which resulted in the deconsolidation of the OWN and APJ ventures (Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements), (ii) the results of operations of our Antenna Audio business as discontinued operations (Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements), and (iii) the realignment of our commerce business, which is now reported as a component of our U.S. Networks segment whereas it was previously reported as a component of our Commerce, Education and Other segment (Note 21 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). The OWN venture was previously included in our U.S. Networks segment. The APJ venture and the Antenna Audio business were previously included in our International Networks segment. Consolidated Results of Operations 2009 vs. 2008 Our consolidated results of operations for 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable/(Unfavorable) 2009 2008 (recast) (recast) Revenues: Distribution $ 1,698 $ 1,628 4 % Advertising 1,427 1,396 2 % Other 333 358 (7 )% Total revenues 3,458 3,382 2 % Costs of revenues , excluding depreciation and amortization 1,044 1,002 (4 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,188 1,075 (11 )% Depreciation and amortization 152 180 16 % Restructuring and impairment charges 52 61 15 % Gains on dispositions (252 ) % 2,184 2,318 6 % Operating income 1,274 1,064 20 % Interest expense, net (248 ) (256 ) 3 % Other income (expense), net 13 (51 ) NM Income from continuing operations, before income taxes 1,039 757 37 % Provision for income taxes (469 ) (353 ) (33 )% Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 570 404 41 % (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (6 ) 40 NM Net income 564 444 27 % Less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (15 ) (127 ) 88 % Net income attributable to Discovery Communications, Inc. 549 317 73 % Stock dividends to preferred interests (8 ) % Net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders $ 541 $ 317 71 % NM not meaningful. Revenues Distribution revenues increased $70 million due primarily to contractual rate increases, subscriber growth, and a reduction in amortization for deferred launch incentives at our U.S. Networks segment and subscriber growth at our International Networks segment. These increases were partially offset by the deconsolidation of the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009, which resulted in a decline of $20 million, and the absence of a one time revenue correction recorded in 2008 that increased revenues $8 million. Distribution revenues were also adversely affected by unfavorable impacts of foreign currency exchange rates of $38 million 38 Table of Contents for 2009. Excluding the unfavorable impacts of foreign currency exchange rates, the deconsolidation of the U.S. Discovery Kids network, and the one time revenue correction in 2008, distribution revenues increased 9% or $137 million. Advertising revenues increased $31 million due to higher ratings and overall price increases at our U.S. Networks segment and increased viewership and subscriber growth at our International Networks segment. Advertising revenues in 2009 also benefited from a $6 million settlement of a prior contract dispute at our U.K. operations. The increases were partially offset by unfavorable impacts of foreign currency exchange rates of $27 million for 2009. Excluding the unfavorable impacts of foreign currency exchange rates and the contract dispute settlement, advertising revenues grew 4% or $52 million. Other revenues, which primarily consist of sales of curriculum based services and content, distribution and advertising sales services, license fees, DVDs, merchandise, and postproduction audio services, decreased $25 million. The decline was attributable to decreasing merchandise sales as a result of changing our business model from direct to consumer to a licensing model where we receive royalties, lower sales of hard copy curriculum based content as purchasers migrate to online distribution, a decline in sales of the Planet Earth DVD series, and a $2 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in online streaming distribution revenues from our education business and $6 million recorded in 2009 in connection with renegotiating our agreements to provide programming to a venture. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content amortization expense, production costs, distribution costs, and sales commissions, increased $42 million. The increase was primarily due to higher content expense at our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments as well as higher distribution costs at our International Networks segment. Total content amortization increased $55 million, due to increased amortization and write offs. These increases were partially offset by the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network, which resulted in a decline of $12 million, a $6 million reduction in our music rights accrual, the reduction in costs of goods sold as a result of transitioning our commerce business to a license model, and a $27 million favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the favorable impacts of foreign currency exchange rates, programming write offs, the deconsolidation of the U.S. Discovery Kids network, and the music rights accrual reduction, costs of revenues increased 6% or $51 million. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which are principally comprised of employee costs, marketing costs, research costs, and occupancy and back office support fees, increased $113 million due primarily to a $294 million increase in employee costs related to stock based compensation programs. The increase was partially offset by lower marketing costs, consulting fees, non share based employee costs, all of which reflect targeted cost savings initiatives and improvements in operating efficiencies, and a $5 million reduction due to the deconsolidation of the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009. Additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses included a $28 million benefit from favorable impacts of foreign currency exchange rates. Employee costs include stock based compensation expense arising from equity awards to employees under our incentive plans. Total stock based compensation expense was $228 million for 2009 as compared to a net benefit of $66 million for 2008. The increase in stock based compensation primarily reflects an increase in the fair value of outstanding cash settled awards and to a lesser extent an increase in stock options outstanding. A portion of our equity awards are cash settled and, therefore, the value of such awards outstanding must be remeasured at fair value each reporting date based on changes in the price of our Series A common stock. Compensation expense for cash settled awards, including changes in fair value, was $205 million for 2009 as compared to a net benefit of $69 million for 2008. Increased compensation expense for cash settled awards was due to an increase in fair value, which reflects the increase in the price of our Series A common stock of 117% during the year ended December 31, 2009. We do not intend to grant additional cash settled awards, except as may be required by contract or to employees in countries in which stock option awards are not permitted. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $28 million due to a decline in amortization expense resulting from lower intangible asset balances in 2009 compared to 2008. 39 Table of Contents Restructuring and Impairment Charges Restructuring and impairment charges decreased $9 million. We recorded $26 million and $30 million of impairment charges related to intangible assets, goodwill, and capitalized software during 2009 and intangible assets in 2008, respectively, primarily for certain asset groups at our U.S. Networks segment due to declines in expected operating performance. We also recorded exit and restructuring charges of $26 million and $31 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively, in connection with a reorganization of portions of our operations to reduce our cost structure. The charges for 2009 were primarily incurred by our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments as well as our corporate operations and include $21 million of severance costs and $5 million of contract termination costs. We expect the majority of these charges to be paid within the next year. We do not expect material future charges associated with these restructuring programs. The charges incurred in 2008 were primarily related to TLCs repositioning strategy, the termination of a production group, and the closure of our commerce distribution center and our store headquarters offices along with the transition of the remaining commerce distribution services to third party service providers. Gains on Dispositions In connection with the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction, we recorded a pretax gain of $252 million. The gain comprised $125 million for the 50% interest sold to the venture partner and $127 million as a result of stepping up our basis for the 50% interest contributed to the venture in May 2009. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net decreased $8 million for 2009 when compared to 2008 primarily due to a decrease in average debt outstanding partially offset by an increase in the average effective interest rate on our borrowings. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted of the following (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (recast) (recast) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net $ 26 $ (22 ) Realized losses on derivative instruments, net (6 ) (9 ) Loss from equity investees, net (24 ) (65 ) Realized gains on sales of investments 15 Reduction of liability to former owners of a wholly owned subsidiary 47 Other, net 2 (2 ) Total other income (expense), net $ 13 $ (51 ) The improvement in unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments was attributable to changes in the fair values of interest rate swaps as a result of changes in interest rates. The decrease in losses from equity method investees was due to the absence of a $57 million impairment charge recorded in 2008 for the other than temporary decline in the value of an equity method investment. During 2009, we sold investments that resulted in pretax gains of $15 million. The reduction in the liability to the former owners of a wholly owned subsidiary was due to a one time adjustment of $47 million recorded in 2008 to reduce the fair value of the liability. Provision for Income Taxes For 2009 and 2008, our provisions for income taxes were $469 million and $353 million and the effective tax rates were 45% and 47%, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2009 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to a permanent difference on the $252 million gain from the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction, state income taxes and to a lesser extent, deductions for domestic production activities. 40 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate for 2008 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% principally due to the presentation of the Discovery Formation as though it was consummated on January 1, 2008. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements include the gross combined financial results of both DHC and DCH since January 1, 2008. Prior to the Discovery Formation on September 17, 2008, DHC owned 66 2/3% of DCH and, therefore, recognized a portion of DCHs operating results. As a result, the tax provision for 2008 includes the taxes recognized by both DCH and DHC related to the portion of DCHs operating results recognized by DHC. DHC recognized $91 million of deferred tax expense related to its investment in DCH prior to the Discovery Formation for 2008. The provision for income taxes for 2008 was partially offset by the release of an $18 million valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and the release of a $10 million valuation allowance for deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carry forwards. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes In September 2008, prior to our formation on September 17, 2008, DHC sold its ownership interests in Ascent Media CANS, LLC, Ascent Media Systems & Technology Services, LLC and certain buildings and equipment for net proceeds of $139 million, which resulted in pretax gains totaling $76 million. Summary financial information for discontinued operations was as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (recast) (recast) Revenues $ 47 $ 536 Loss from the operations of discontinued operations, before income taxes $ (9 ) $ (10 ) Loss from the operations of discontinued operations, net of taxes $ (6 ) $ (7 ) Gains on dispositions, net of taxes 47 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes $ (6 ) $ 40 (Loss) income per share from discontinued operations available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders, basic and diluted $ (0.01 ) $ 0.12 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 423 321 Diluted 425 322 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests The decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is due primarily to the allocation of a portion of DCHs 2008 net income to Advance/Newhouse for its ownership interest in DCH prior to the Discovery Formation. Stock Dividends to Preferred Interests We declared noncash stock dividends of $8 million and zero to our preferred stock shareholder during 2009 and 2008, respectively. We released approximately 254,000 and zero of our Series A common stock and approximately 211,000 and zero of our Series C common stock from escrow during 2009 and 2008, respectively, in payment of most of the dividends declared. We are contractually obligated to issue the dividends upon the issuance of our common stock to settle the exercise of stock options and stock appreciation rights that we assumed in connection with our formation on September 17, 2008. The increase in dividends declared was due to a higher number of stock options and stock appreciation rights being exercised. 41 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations 2009 vs. 2008 We evaluate the operating performance of our segments based on financial measures such as revenues and Adjusted OIBDA. Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark to market stock based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) certain impairment charges, and (vi) gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions. We use this measure to assess operating results and performance of our segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each segment. We believe Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses and also provides investors a measure to analyze the operating performance of each segment against historical data. We exclude mark to market stock based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, impairment charges, and gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility or non recurring nature. We also exclude the depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets and deferred launch incentives as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. Adjusted OIBDA should be considered in addition to, but not a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flows provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, certain corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate segment performance based upon decisions made directly by segment executives. Additional financial information for our segments and geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA was calculated as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2009 2008 (Unfavorable) (recast) (recast) Revenues: U.S. Networks $ 2,170 $ 2,115 3 % International Networks 1,131 1,097 3 % Education and Other 148 143 4 % Corporate and inter segment eliminations 9 27 (67 )% Total revenues 3,458 3,382 2 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization(1) (1,044 ) (1,002 ) (4 )% Selling, general and administrative(1) (983 ) (1,144 ) 14 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives(2) 55 75 (27 )% Adjusted OIBDA $ 1,486 $ 1,311 13 % (1) Costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses exclude mark to market stock based compensation, depreciation and amortization, restructuring and impairment charges, and gains on dispositions. (2) Amortization of deferred launch incentives are included as a reduction of distribution revenues for reporting in accordance with GAAP, but are excluded from Adjusted OIBDA. 42 Table of Contents The following table presents our Adjusted OIBDA, by segment, with a reconciliation of total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA to consolidated operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2009 2008 (Unfavorable) (recast) (recast) Adjusted OIBDA: U.S. Networks $ 1,229 $ 1,118 10 % International Networks 445 382 16 % Education and Other 16 12 33 % Corporate and inter segment eliminations (204 ) (201 ) (1 )% Total Adjusted OIBDA 1,486 1,311 13 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (55 ) (75 ) 27 % Mark to market stock based compensation (205 ) 69 NM Depreciation and amortization (152 ) (180 ) 16 % Restructuring and impairment charges (52 ) (61 ) 15 % Gains on dispositions 252 % Operating income $ 1,274 $ 1,064 20 % NM not meaningful. U.S. Networks The following table presents, for our U.S. Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2009 2008 (Unfavorable) (recast) (recast) Revenues: Distribution $ 982 $ 927 6 % Advertising 1,082 1,058 2 % Other 106 130 (18 )% Total revenues 2,170 2,115 3 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (544 ) (541 ) (1 )% Selling, general and administrative (418 ) (490 ) 15 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 21 34 (38 )% Adjusted OIBDA 1,229 1,118 10 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (21 ) (34 ) 38 % Mark to market stock based compensation (1 ) (4 ) 75 % Depreciation and amortization (30 ) (57 ) 47 % Restructuring and impairment charges (31 ) (57 ) 46 % Gains on dispositions 252 % Operating income $ 1,398 $ 966 45 % Revenues Distribution revenues increased $55 million, primarily due to annual contractual rate increases for fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, an increase in paying subscribers, principally for networks carried on the digital tier, and a $13 million decrease in amortization of deferred launch incentives. These increases were partially offset by a $20 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009 and the absence of a revenue correction recorded in 2008 that increased revenues $8 million. 43 Table of Contents Advertising revenues increased $24 million, which was driven by higher ratings and increased pricing, which were partially offset by a decline in sellouts due to softness in the advertising marketplace. Other revenues decreased $24 million, which was principally driven by a $25 million decline in merchandise revenues due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009 from primarily selling merchandise directly to consumers to licensing our brands to merchandise companies. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, sales commissions, production costs and distribution costs, increased $3 million. The increase in costs of revenues was driven by a $30 million increase in content expense, which was due to increases in amortization and write offs of capitalized content costs. The increase in content expense was partially offset by a $12 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009, and an $18 million decline due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, decreased $72 million. Decreased selling, general and administrative expenses was attributable to lower marketing and overhead costs, which was due to cost reduction efforts, a $5 million decline for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009, and an $11 million decline due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $111 million, primarily due to increased distribution revenues, growth in advertising sales, lower employee and marketing costs, and a $5 million increase due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009. These improvements were partially offset by increased content expense, the absence of a revenue correction recorded in 2008, and an $8 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009. International Networks The following table presents, for our International Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2009 2008 (Unfavorable) (recast) (recast) Revenues: Distribution $ 716 $ 701 2 % Advertising 344 336 2 % Other 71 60 18 % Total revenues 1,131 1,097 3 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (403 ) (372 ) (8 )% Selling, general and administrative (317 ) (384 ) 17 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 34 41 (17 )% Adjusted OIBDA 445 382 16 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (34 ) (41 ) 17 % Depreciation and amortization (38 ) (37 ) (3 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (14 ) (2 ) NM Operating income $ 359 $ 302 19 % NM not meaningful. 44 Table of Contents Revenues Distribution revenues increased $15 million, which was attributable to growth in the number of paying subscribers in Latin America, EMEA, and Asia Pacific due to growth in pay television services in these regions, which was partially offset by a $38 decline due to unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Advertising revenues, which increased $8 million, was higher in the U.K., EMEA, and Latin America, driven by increased viewership. Increased viewership was due to growth in pay television services and expanded distribution of our networks in these regions. For 2009, advertising revenues also benefited from an advertising sales representation contract renewal, which resulted in a $6 million settlement of prior contract disputes and our ability to further monetize our audience delivery on a prospective basis. These increases were partially offset by a $27 million decrease due to unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Other revenues increased $11 million due primarily to $6 million recorded in connection with renegotiating our agreements to provide licenses and program access to a venture. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, distribution costs, sales commissions and production costs, increased $31 million. The increase in costs of revenues was due to higher content expense and distribution costs, which were partially offset by lower license fees for music rights and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Content expense increased $24 million, which was driven by increased write offs and amortization. Distribution costs increased $6 million, which was attributable to expanding the distribution of our networks in certain markets. The decrease in license fees for music rights was due to $6 million reversal of music rights liabilities in 2009 as a result of changes in estimates for amounts accrued in prior periods. Overall, costs of revenues were $27 million lower due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, decreased $67 million. Decreased selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to lower marketing as a result of cost savings initiatives, and to a lesser extent lower employee costs due to restructurings that eliminated certain positions and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Overall, selling, general and administrative expenses were $28 million lower due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $63 million, driven by lower marketing and employee costs, increased distribution revenues, higher advertising sales, growth in other revenues, and the 2009 reversal of music rights liabilities recorded in prior periods. These improvements were partially offset by increased content expense, higher distribution costs, and a $17 million decline from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 45 Table of Contents Education and Other The following table presents, for our Education and Other segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2009 2008 (Unfavorable) (recast) (recast) Revenues: Advertising $ 1 $ % Other 147 143 3 % Total revenues 148 143 3 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (90 ) (84 ) (7 )% Selling, general and administrative (42 ) (47 ) 11 % Adjusted OIBDA 16 12 33 % Depreciation and amortization (6 ) (8 ) 25 % Restructuring and impairment charges (2 ) % Operating income $ 8 $ 4 100 % Revenues Other revenues increased $4 million, primarily due to growth in subscriptions for access to an online streaming service that includes a suite of curriculum based tools, which was partially offset by declines in hard copy curriculum based content and postproduction audio services. The increase in subscriptions for our online VOD service and the decline in hard copy content reflects the continued migration from hardcopy to online distribution of our curriculum based tools. The decline in postproduction audio services was driven by the overall decline in the DVD marketplace. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist principally of production costs, royalty payments, and content expense, increased $6 million primarily due to increased production costs at our education and postproduction audio businesses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, occupancy and back office support fees and marketing costs, decreased $5 million, which was driven by lower costs at our postproduction audio business as a result of cost savings initiatives. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $4 million, primarily due to cost savings initiatives at our postproduction audio business and growth in subscriptions to our online streaming services. The increases were partially offset by increases in production costs and a decline in postproduction audio services. 46 Table of Contents Corporate and Inter segment Eliminations The following table presents, for our unallocated corporate amounts, revenues, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating loss (in millions). Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable/ 2009 2008 (Unfavorable) Revenues: Other $ 9 $ 27 (67 )% Total revenues 9 27 (67 )% Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (7 ) (5 ) (40 )% Selling, general and administrative (206 ) (223 ) 8 % Adjusted OIBDA (204 ) (201 ) (1 )% Mark to market stock based compensation (204 ) 73 NM Depreciation and amortization (78 ) (78 ) % Restructuring and impairment charges (5 ) (2 ) NM Operating loss $ (491 ) $ (208 ) NM NM not meaningful. Corporate functions primarily consist of executive management, administrative support services, a consolidated venture, and substantially all of our stock based compensation. Consistent with our segment reporting, corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate business segment performance based upon decisions made directly by business segment executives. Other revenues decreased $18 million as a result of lower DVD sales at a consolidated venture, which was attributable to a decline in sales of the Planet Earth DVD series that was released in 2007. Costs of revenues increased $2 million due to increased content costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $17 million, which was primarily attributable to restructurings that eliminated certain positions and cost reduction efforts. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Sources and Uses of Cash Our principal sources of cash are cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash flows from operating activities, available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and access to capital markets. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.5 billion of total capital resources available, comprised of $454 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, excluding amounts held by consolidated ventures, and approximately $1.0 billion available to borrow under our revolving credit facility. As a public company, we may have access to other sources of capital such as the public bond and equity markets. On June 17, 2009, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S 3 (Shelf Registration) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in which we registered securities, including debt securities, common stock and preferred stock. We have issued $3.5 billion of public senior notes under this Shelf Registration. Access to sufficient capital in these markets is not assured and is dependent on the current equity and credit markets. We took advantage of a decrease in interest rates available in the capital markets to extend our debt maturities by refinancing most of our outstanding debt in June 2010. On June 3, 2010, DCL issued $3.0 billion of senior notes with amounts maturing in June 2015, 2020 and 2040. Interest on the senior notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on December 1, 2010. We used the net proceeds of the offering plus cash on hand to repay $2.9 billion outstanding under our term loans and privately held senior notes prior to maturity. The repayments resulted in a pretax loss on extinguishment of debt of $136 million, which included $114 million for make whole premiums, $12 million of noncash write offs of unamortized deferred financing costs and $10 million for the repayment of the original issue discount on our term loans. 47 Table of Contents On October 13, 2010, we entered into a new $1.0 billion revolving credit facility that expires in October 2013. If we were to experience a significant decline in operating performance, or have to meet an unanticipated need for additional capital beyond our available commitments, there is no certainty that we would be able to access the needed capital. Covenants in our revolving credit facility may constrain our capacity for additional debt. Although our leverage and interest coverage covenants limit the total amount of debt we might incur relative to our operating cash flow, we would continue to maintain compliance with our borrowing covenants with a 50% reduction in our current operating performance, as defined in the credit agreement. We were in compliance with all covenants and customary provisions and there were no events of default as of December 31, 2010. Our primary uses of cash have been the repayment of outstanding borrowings, debt and related interest, the creation and acquisition of new content, operating expenditures, repurchases of stock, funding to ventures, and business acquisitions. We anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash generated by operating activities and available to us should be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We plan to continue to significantly invest in the creation and acquisition of new content. Additional information regarding contractual commitments to acquire content is set forth in the section titled Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. On August 3, 2010, we implemented a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we are authorized to purchase up to $1.0 billion of our common stock. We expect to fund repurchases through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and future financing transactions. Under the program, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions at prevailing prices as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements, and subject to stock price, business conditions, market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During 2010, we repurchased 2.99 million shares of our Series C common stock for $105 million through open market transactions. The repurchases were funded using cash on hand. As of December 31, 2010, we had remaining authorization of $895 million for future repurchases of common stock. The $105 million aggregate purchase price of the acquired stock was recorded in a separate account as a reduction of equity. We repurchased an additional 2.58 million shares of our Series C common stock for $89 million from January 1, 2011 through February 8, 2011. On December 13, 2010, we repurchased and retired approximately 13.73 million shares of our Series C convertible preferred stock from Advance/Newhouse for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million. The repurchase was made outside of our publicly announced stock repurchase program. The $500 million aggregate purchase price was recorded as a decrease of $100,000 to par value, $234 million to additional paid in capital, and $266 million to retained earnings because the additional paid in capital related to the series of shares repurchased was reduced to zero. We have interests in various ventures. Pursuant to venture arrangements, as of December 31, 2010 we are committed to fund up to $234 million, of which $165 million had been funded. In August 2010, the OWN venture agreement was amended which, among other matters, increased our funding commitment to OWN from $100 million to $189 million. The funding will be in the form of a revolving loan from DCL and or debt financing from a third party lender to OWN. As of December 31, 2010, we have funded $156 million to OWN, including interest accrued on outstanding borrowings. We currently expect to finance any additional funding needs for OWN through member loans. Based on OWNs currently anticipated expenses and projected budget for 2011, we believe that its funding needs for 2011 in excess of our funding commitments could be approximately $50 million, excluding accrued interest. We anticipate that sufficient funds will be available to meet funding needs under our obligations and any additional OWN member loans we determine to make in 2011. We expect to recoup the amounts funded provided that the ventures are profitable and have sufficient funds to repay us. In 2011, we expect our uses of cash to include approximately $200 million for interest payments related to our outstanding indebtedness, periodic derivative payments and capital lease obligations, and approximately $50 million for capital expenditures. We expect tax payments in 2011 to decrease as a result of the extension of the tax law that allows for the immediate deduction of certain domestic programming costs. Additionally, we expect to continue to make payments to settle vested cash settled equity awards. Actual amounts expensed and payable for cash settled awards are dependent on future calculations of fair value which are primarily affected by changes in our stock price or changes in the number of awards outstanding. During 2010, we paid $158 million for cash settled equity awards. As of December 31, 2010, we accrued $125 million for outstanding cash settled equity awards, of which $118 million was classified as current. 48 Table of Contents Cash Flows Changes in cash and cash equivalents were as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (recast) (recast) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period $ 623 $ 94 $ 209 Cash provided by operating activities 668 642 573 Cash (used in) provided by investing activities (190 ) 238 88 Cash used in financing activities (641 ) (356 ) (774 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 6 5 (2 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (157 ) 529 (115 ) Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 466 $ 623 $ 94 Changes in cash and cash equivalents include amounts related to discontinued operations. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for 2010 increased by $26 million as compared to 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven by increased earnings, principally from increased advertising and distribution revenues at our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments, and a decrease of $49 million in tax payments, principally due to a nonrecurring tax payment in 2009 related to the gain on the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction. These increases were partially offset by $114 million of make whole premiums paid in connection with refinancing most of our outstanding debt in June 2010 and a $77 million increase in payments for cash settled equity awards. The increase in payments for cash settled equity awards was attributable to the increase in fair value of outstanding awards due to the increase in the prices of our Series A common stock and settlements of SARs granted in late 2008 and early 2009 as part of a transition from an existing equity plan under which we typically granted cash settled awards to a new equity plan under which we typically issue stock settled awards. For 2009, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $69 million as compared to 2008. Increased cash provided by operating activities was due principally to increased earnings, driven by increased distribution and advertising revenues at our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments, and to a lesser extent lower payments for content rights and the timing of payment of our operating liabilities. These increases were partially offset by increased tax payments, primarily nonrecurring tax payments in 2009 related to the gain on the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction, and higher payments for cash settled equity awards due to the increase in fair value of outstanding awards due to the increase in the prices of our Series A common stock. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2010 was $190 million as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $238 million for 2009. The decline in cash flows from investing activities was due to a decline in cash from business and investment dispositions, an increase in cash used for business acquisitions, and increased funding payments to unconsolidated ventures, which were partially offset by a reduction in capital expenditures. Cash used in investing activities during 2010 consisted of $127 million in funding to our unconsolidated network ventures, payments of $49 million for property and equipment acquisitions and $35 million for the purchase of an uplink facility, which were partially offset by net proceeds of $24 million related to the sale of our Antenna Audio business. Cash provided by investing activities for 2009 principally includes a $300 million nonrecurring payment received in connection with the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction and $24 million in proceeds from the sale of investments, which were partially offset by $55 million of property and equipment acquisitions and $31 million in funding to our unconsolidated ventures. The increase in funding to ventures was due to additional costs for selling, general and administrative expenses and content development related to the launch of OWN on January 1, 2011. Net cash provided by investing activities for 2009 increased by $150 million as compared to 2008. The increase in cash flows from investing activities was due to increased proceeds from business dispositions and a decrease in capital expenditures, which were partially offset with cash received in connection with our formation in 2008 and increased funding payments to unconsolidated ventures. Cash provided by investing activities for 2008 primarily reflects $139 million from the dispositions of AccentHealth, AMSTS and certain buildings and equipment, which were components of AMC, $39 million received from DHC in connection with our formation on September 17, 2008 and $24 million in proceeds from the sale of investments, which were partially offset by $102 million of property and equipment acquisitions. The increase in funding to ventures was due to additional costs for selling, general and 49 Table of Contents administrative expenses and content development as a result of the formation of OWN in June 2008. The decrease in property and equipment acquisitions reflects cost reduction initiatives. Financing Activities During 2010, net cash used in financing activities comprised of $2.9 billion of repayments of term loans and private senior notes, $500 million for the repurchase of 13.73 million shares of our Series C convertible preferred stock, $148 million related to the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership interest in the international Animal Planet and Liv networks, $105 million for the repurchase of 2.99 million shares of our Series C common stock, and $31 million of distributions to noncontrolling interests, which were partially offset by approximately $3.0 billion of net proceeds for the issuance of public senior notes and $47 million of proceeds from stock option exercises. We used the debt offering proceeds and cash on hand to repay our term loans and private senior notes. For 2009, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of the repayment of $1.0 billion of term loans and $315 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which were partially offset by borrowings and debt issuances for which we received net proceeds of $970 million and $28 million of proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash used in financing activities for 2009 decreased by $418 million as compared to 2008. The net cash used in financing activities during 2008 was driven by $356 million distributed in connection with the AMC spinoff, $257 million of repayments of term loans and private senior notes, and $125 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Capital Resources As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.5 billion of total capital resources available, which was comprised of the following (in millions). As of December 31, 2010 TotalCapacity OutstandingLetters ofCredit OutstandingIndebtedness UnusedCapacity Cash and cash equivalents $ 454 $ $ $ 454 Revolving credit facility 1,000 1 999 Fixed rate public debt: 3.70% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due June 2015 850 850 5.625% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due August 2019 500 500 5.05% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due June 2020 1,300 1,300 6.35% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due June 2040 850 850 3,500 3,500 Total $ 4,954 $ 1 $ 3,500 $ 1,453 Cash and cash equivalents exclude $12 million of cash available only for use by consolidated ventures as of December 31, 2010. Additional information regarding the changes in our outstanding indebtedness and the significant terms and provisions of our revolving credit facility and outstanding indebtedness is set forth in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 50 Table of Contents COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2010, our significant contractual obligations, including related payments due by period, were as follows (in millions). Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Long term debt: Principal payments $ 3,500 $ $ $ 850 $ 2,650 Interest payments 2,610 179 358 343 1,730 Capital lease obligations Principal payments 125 28 32 21 44 Interest payments 34 7 11 8 8 Operating lease obligations 340 58 104 86 92 Purchase obligations: Content 482 374 80 28 Other 676 177 220 80 199 Total $ 7,767 $ 823 $ 805 $ 1,416 $ 4,723 The above table does not include certain long term obligations reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as the timing of the payments cannot be predicted or the amounts. Such funding obligations include funding commitments to ventures. As of December 31, 2010 we are committed to fund up to $234 million to ventures, of which $165 million had been funded. Additionally, as of December 31, 2010, we have accrued $125 million for cash settled stock based compensation awards, which are remeasured at fair value each reporting period. Reserves for income taxes have been excluded due to the fact that we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of our reserves for income taxes. Our reserves for income taxes totaled $63 million as of December 31, 2010. Long term Debt Principal payments on long term debt reflect the repayment of our outstanding senior notes, at face value, assuming repayment will occur upon maturity. Interest payments on our outstanding senior notes are projected based on the notes contractual rate and maturity. Capital Lease Obligations We acquire satellite transponders and other equipment through multi year capital lease arrangements. Principal payments on capital lease obligations reflect amounts due under our capital leases agreements. Interest payments on our outstanding capital lease obligations are based on the stated or implied rate in our capital lease agreements. Operating Lease Obligations We obtain certain office space and equipment under multi year lease arrangement. Most operating leases are not cancelable prior to their expiration. Payments for operating leases represent the amounts due under the agreements assuming the agreements are not canceled prior to their expiration. Purchase Obligations Content purchase obligations include obligations for contracts with certain third party producers for the production of programming that airs on our television networks. Production contracts generally require us to purchase a specified number of episodes of the program. Content purchase obligations also include program licenses that typically require payments over the terms of the licenses. Licensed programming includes both programs that have been delivered and are available for airing and programs that have not yet been produced. If the programs are not produced, our commitments would generally expire without obligation. We expect to enter into additional production contracts and program licenses to meet our future programming needs. 51 Table of Contents Other purchase obligations include multi year agreements with certain vendors and suppliers for the purchase of goods and services whereby the underlying agreements are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms. Significant purchase obligations include transmission services, television rating services, marketing research, employment contracts, equipment purchases, and information technology and other services. These contracts typically do not require the purchase of fixed or minimum quantities and generally may be terminated with a 30 day to 60 day advance notice without penalty. Amounts related to employment contracts include base compensation and do not include compensation contingent on future events. Guarantees We have guaranteed a certain level of operating performance for The Hub venture, which is reduced over time as performance criteria are achieved. As of December 31, 2010, the remaining maximum exposure to loss under this performance guarantee was below $210 million. Additional information regarding our guarantee is set forth in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no material off balance sheet arrangements (as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S K) that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the ordinary course of business we enter into transactions with related parties, primarily Liberty Global, Inc., Liberty Media Corporation, and Ascent Media Corporation and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates, and companies in which we have an interest accounted for under the equity method. Information regarding transactions and amounts with related parties is set forth in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. NEW ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We adopted certain accounting and reporting standards during 2010. Information regarding our adoption of new accounting and reporting standards is set forth in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these evaluations form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. Critical accounting policies impact the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgment and estimates. An appreciation of our critical accounting policies facilitates an understanding of our financial results. Unless otherwise noted, we applied our critical accounting policies and estimates methods consistently in all material respects and for all periods presented. For further information regarding these critical accounting policies and estimates, please see the Notes to our consolidated financial statements. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes. Management continually re evaluates its estimates, judgments and assumptions and managements assessments could change. Actual results may differ from those estimates and could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates inherent in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, consolidation of VIEs, accounting for acquisitions, dispositions, allowances for doubtful accounts, content rights, asset impairments, redeemable noncontrolling interests, fair value measurements, revenue recognition, depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation, income taxes and contingencies. 52 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition We generate revenues principally from: (i) fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, which primarily include cable and DTH satellite service providers, (ii) advertising sold on our networks, websites and other digital media services, and (iii) other transactions, including curriculum based products and services, affiliate and advertising sales representation services for third party networks, content licenses, postproduction audio services, and the licensing of our brands for consumer products. General Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, delivery occurs or services are rendered, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Distribution revenues are reported net of remittance of sales tax, value added tax and other taxes collected from customers. However, distribution revenues are inclusive of foreign withholding income tax. Revenue recognition for each source of revenue is also based on the following policies. Distribution Cable operators, satellite service providers and other distributors typically pay a per subscriber fee for the right to distribute our programming under the terms of distribution contracts (distribution revenues). The majority of our distribution fees are collected monthly throughout the year. Distribution revenues are recognized over the term of the contracts, including any free periods, based on contracted programming rates and reported subscriber levels. The amount of distribution revenues due to us is reported by distributors based on actual subscriber levels. Such information is generally not received until after the close of the reporting period. In such cases, reported distribution revenues are based upon our estimate of the number of subscribers receiving our programming for periods which the distributor has not yet reported. Our subscriber estimates are based on the most recent remittance or confirmation of subscribers received from the distributor. We subsequently adjust our estimated amounts based upon the actual amount of subscribers. Historical differences between actual amounts and estimates have not been material. Distribution revenues are recognized net of incentives we provide to operators in exchange for carrying our networks. Incentives typically include cash payments to operators (launch incentives), providing the channel to the distributor for free for a predetermined length of time, or both. Launch incentives are capitalized as assets upon launch of our network by the operator and are amortized on a straight line basis as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract, including free periods. In instances where the distribution agreement is extended prior to the expiration of the original term, we evaluate the economics of the extended term and, if it is determined that the launch asset continues to benefit us over the extended term, then we will adjust the amortization period of the remaining launch incentives accordingly. Other incentives are recognized as a reduction of revenue as incurred. Amortization of launch incentives was $42 million, $55 million and $75 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Advertising Advertising revenues are principally generated from the sale of commercial time on television networks. Advertising revenues are recognized net of agency commissions in the period advertising spots are aired. A substantial portion of the advertising contracts in the U.S. guarantee the advertiser a minimum audience level that either the program in which their advertisements are aired or the advertisement will reach. Revenues are recognized for the actual audience level delivered. We provide the advertiser with additional advertising spots in future periods if the guaranteed audience level is not delivered. Revenues are deferred for any shortfall in the audience level until such time as the required audience level is delivered. Audience guarantees are initially developed internally based on planned programming, historical audience levels, the success of pilot programs, and market trends. In the U.S., actual audience and delivery information is published by independent ratings services. In certain instances, the independent ratings information is not received until after the close of the reporting period. In these cases, reported advertising revenue and related deferred revenue is based upon our estimate of the audience level delivered using the most current data available from the independent ratings service. We subsequently adjust our estimated amounts based upon the actual audience delivered. Historical differences between actual amounts and estimates have not been material. Advertising revenues from online properties are recognized either as impressions are delivered or the services are performed. Other Revenues for curriculum based services are recognized ratably over the contract term. Revenues from postproduction audio services are recognized using the milestone method. 53 Table of Contents Deferred Revenues Deferred revenues primarily consist of amounts received for television advertising for which the advertising spots have not yet aired and advanced billings to subscribers for access to our curriculum based streaming services. The amounts classified as current are expected to be earned within the next year. Content Rights Content rights principally consist of television series and television specials. Content aired on our television networks is primarily obtained through third party production companies and is classified either as produced, coproduced or licensed. Substantially all produced content includes programming for which we have engaged third parties to develop and produce, but we own most or all rights. Coproduced content refers to programs for which we collaborate with third parties to finance, develop and distribute, and we retain significant rights to exploit the programs. Licensed content is comprised of films or series that have been previously produced by third parties. Capitalized content costs are stated at the lower of cost less accumulated amortization or net realizable value. Costs of produced and coproduced content consist of development costs, acquired production costs, direct production costs, certain production overhead costs and participation costs. Costs incurred for produced and coproduced content are capitalized if we have previously generated revenues from similar content in established markets and the content will be used and revenues will be generated for a period of at least one year. Our coproduction arrangements generally represent the sharing of production cost. We record our costs, but do not record the costs borne by the other party as we do not share any associated economics of exploitation. Program licenses typically have fixed terms and require payments during the term of the license. The cost of licensed content is capitalized when the programs become available for airing. Development costs for programs that we have determined will not be produced are written off. Additionally, distribution, advertising, marketing, general and administrative costs are expensed as incurred. Amortization of content rights is recognized based on the proportion that current estimated revenues bear to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues, which results in either an accelerated method or a straight line method over the estimated useful lives. Amortization of capitalized costs for produced and coproduced content begins when a program has been aired. Amortization of capitalized costs for licensed content commences when the license period begins and the program is available for use. We periodically evaluate the net realizable value of content by considering expected future revenue generation. Estimates of future revenues consider historical airing patterns and future plans for airing content, including any changes in strategy. Estimated future revenues can change based upon market acceptance, network affiliate fee rates and advertising, the number of cable and satellite television subscribers receiving our networks and program usage. Accordingly, we review revenue estimates and planned usage and revise our assumptions if necessary. If actual demand or market conditions are less favorable than projected, a write down to net realizable value may be required. All produced and coproduced content is classified as long term. The portion of the unamortized licensed content balance that will be amortized within one year is classified as a current asset. Stock Based Compensation We have incentive plans under which unit awards, stock appreciation rights (SARs), stock options, performance based restricted stock units (PRSUs) and service based restricted stock units (RSUs) are issued. We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for unit awards and SARs based on the fair value of the award less estimated forfeitures. Because unit awards and SARs are cash settled, we remeasure the fair value of these awards each reporting period until settlement. Compensation expense, including changes in fair value, for unit awards and SARs is recognized during the vesting period in proportion to the requisite service that has been rendered as of the reporting date. For grants of unit awards with graded vesting, we measure fair value and record compensation expense for all vesting tranches as a single award. For grants of SARs with graded vesting, we measure fair value and record compensation expense separately for each vesting tranche. Changes in the fair value of outstanding unit awards and SARs that occur between the vesting date and settlement date are recorded as adjustments to compensation costs in the period in which the changes occur. We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for stock options based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant less estimated forfeitures. Compensation expense for stock options is recognized ratably during the vesting period. The fair values of unit awards, SARs and stock options are estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Because the Black Scholes option pricing model requires the use of subjective assumptions, changes in these assumptions can materially affect the 54 Table of Contents fair value of awards. For unit awards and SARs, the expected term is the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the award. For stock options, the expected term is estimated to be the period from the date of grant through the mid point between the vesting date and the end of the contractual term of the award. Expected volatility is based on a combination of implied volatilities from traded options on our common stock and historical realized volatility of our common stock, and considers other factors deemed relevant. The dividend yield is assumed to be 0% because we have no present intention to pay dividends. The risk free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the award. Vesting for certain PRSUs is subject to satisfying objective operating performance conditions while vesting for other PRSUs is based on the achievement of a combination of objective and subjective operating performance conditions. Compensation expense for PRSUs that vest based on achieving objective operating performance conditions is measured based on the fair value of our Series A common stock on the date of grant less estimated forfeitures. Compensation expense for PRSUs that vest based on achieving subjective operating performance conditions is remeasured at fair value of our Series A common stock each reporting period until the date of vesting less estimated forfeitures. Compensation expense for all PRSUs is recognized ratably during the vesting period only when it is probable that the operating performance conditions will be achieved. We record a cumulative adjustment to compensation expense for PRSUs if there is a change in the determination of whether or not it is probable the operating performance conditions will be achieved. We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for RSUs based on the fair value of our Series A common stock on the date of grant less estimated forfeitures. Compensation expense for RSUs is recognized ratably during the vesting period. When recording compensation cost for stock based awards, we are required to estimate the number of awards granted that are expected to be forfeited. In estimating forfeitures, we consider historical and expected forfeiture rates and future events when such information is known. On an ongoing basis, we adjust compensation expense based on actual forfeitures and revise the forfeiture rate as necessary. Stock based compensation expense is recorded as a component of Selling, general and administrative expense. We classify as a current liability the intrinsic value of unit awards and SARs that are vested or will become vested within one year. Excess tax benefits realized from the exercise of stock options and vested RSUs and PRSUs are reported as cash inflows from financing activities rather than as a reduction of taxes paid in cash flows from operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Goodwill and Indefinite lived Intangible Assets We test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter and earlier upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances. Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are generally an operating segment or one reporting level below the operating segment. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. In performing the first step, we determine the fair value of a reporting unit by using a combination of a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis and market based valuation methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, perpetual growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The cash flows employed in the DCF analyses are based on our budget, long term business plan, and our recent operating performance. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in future cash flows of the respective reporting unit. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against other value indicators such as comparable company public trading values, research analyst estimates and values observed in market transactions. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is required to be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In other words, the estimated fair value of the reporting units identifiable net assets excluding goodwill are compared to the fair value of the reporting unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of intangible assets not subject to amortization are determined using a DCF valuation analysis, a market based valuation analysis, or both. 55 Table of Contents 2010 Impairment Testing The majority of our goodwill balance is the result of the Discovery Formation on September 17, 2008 and a transaction with Cox Communications Holdings, Inc. in 2007 (the Cox Transaction). As a result of the Discovery Formation, we allocated $1.8 billion of goodwill previously allocated to DHCs equity investment in DCH and $251 million of goodwill for the basis differential between the carrying value of DHCs investment in DCH to our reporting units. The formation of DCH as part of the Cox Transaction required pushdown accounting of each shareholders basis in DCH. The result was the pushdown of $4.6 billion of additional goodwill previously recorded on the investors books to DCH reporting units. We performed our 2010 annual goodwill impairment testing as of November 30, 2010. We utilized a DCF model and market approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. The DCF model utilizes projected financial results for each reporting unit. The projected financial results are created from critical assumptions and estimates which are based on managements business plans and historical trends. The market approach relies on data from publicly traded guideline companies. For the annual goodwill impairment test performed on November 30, 2010, we did not significantly change the methodology from the prior year to determine the fair value of our reporting units. Impairment: During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, we impaired all CSS goodwill of $11 million. As of November 30, 2010, the fair value of all our other reporting units exceeded their carrying values. We did not perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test. Sensitivity Analysis: To illustrate the magnitude of a potential impairment relative to future changes in estimated fair values, there were no reporting units for which a 20% decline in fair value would result in the reporting units carrying value exceeding its fair value. Given the reductions required and the assumptions used in our fair value modeling at the time of our impairment review, there did not appear to be any likely changes or trigger events that would indicate an impairment of our reporting units. 2011 Impairment Testing In addition to our annual impairment review of goodwill, we will be required to perform an interim impairment review at our U.S. Networks segment during the first quarter of 2011 as a result of contributing the Discovery Health network to OWN on January 1, 2011. As the Discovery Health network was determined to be a business, we will be required to allocate goodwill to the network based on its fair value relative to the fair value of the remaining portion of the U.S. Networks segment. As of the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the amount of goodwill allocated to the Discovery Health network is not determinable as the fair value estimate of the contributed assets has not been completed. Long lived Assets Long lived assets such as amortizing trademarks, customer lists, other intangible assets, and property and equipment are not required to be tested for impairment annually. Instead, long lived assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such events include but are not limited to the likely disposal of a portion of such assets or the occurrence of an adverse change in the market involving the business employing the related assets. If an impairment analysis is required, the impairment test employed is based on whether our intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. If the intent is to hold the asset for continued use, the impairment test first requires a comparison of undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the asset would not be deemed to be recoverable. Impairment would then be measured as the excess of fair value over the assets carrying value. Fair value is typically determined by discounting the future cash flows associated with that asset. If the intent is to hold the asset for sale and certain other criteria are met, the impairment test involves comparing the assets carrying value to its fair value less costs to sell. To the extent the carrying value is greater than the assets fair value an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the difference. Significant judgments in this area involve determining whether events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable, determining the future cash flows for the assets involved and determining the proper discount rate to be applied in determining fair value. There were no impairments of long lived assets during 2010. Income Taxes Income taxes are recorded using the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Deferred taxes are measured using rates we expect to apply to taxable income in years in 56 Table of Contents which those temporary differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not such assets will be unrealized. We report a liability for unrecognized income tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. Our policy is to classify tax interest and penalties related to tax reserves and unrecognized tax benefits as tax expense. The liability for these items is included in other current and noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as appropriate. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Our financial position, earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risks and can be affected by, among other things, economic conditions, interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of investments. We have established policies, procedures and internal processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. We may use derivative financial instruments to modify our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We do not use derivative financial instruments unless there is an underlying exposure. Therefore, we do not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Interest Rates We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding $3.5 billion under various public senior notes with fixed interest rates. Additionally, we have access to a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, with no amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2010. If we were to draw on the revolving credit facility, interest would have been variable based on an underlying index rate. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of future requirements, market conditions and other factors. Fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. A change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense, as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. Our objectives in managing exposure to interest rate changes are to limit the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we may use interest rate swaps to manage our net exposure to interest rate changes related to our outstanding indebtedness. For fixed rate debt, we may enter into variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to LIBOR, in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. For variable rate debt, we may enter into fixed interest rate swaps to effectively fix the amount of interest paid in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. There were no material interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our outstanding public senior notes was $3.7 billion. The potential change in fair value of these senior notes from an adverse 100 basis point change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $323 million as of December 31, 2010. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. Through December 31, 2010, our International Networks segment reported into the following four regions, U.K., EMEA, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. Cash is managed centrally within our four international regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. To the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, draw downs in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. Since earnings of our international operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, we do not hedge our investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. The functional currency of substantially all of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars as part of our consolidated financial reporting. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates affect our financial position and results of operations. The majority of our foreign currency exposure is to the British pound and the Euro. 57 Table of Contents We may enter into spot, forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change to hedge certain exposures to foreign currency exchange risks associated with the cost for producing or acquiring programming abroad. These contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce volatility of earnings and cash flows. We did not hold any foreign currency derivative instruments at December 31, 2010. Market Values of Investments We had investments in entities accounted for using the equity method and highly liquid instruments such as certificates of deposit (CDs), mutual funds and U.S. Treasury securities that are accounted for at fair value. The carrying values of investments in equity method investees were $455 million and the carrying values of investments in CDs, mutual funds and U.S. Treasury securities totaled $430 million at December 31, 2010. Investments in CDs, mutual funds, and U.S. Treasury securities include both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities that carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our income from such investments may decrease in the future. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not materially impact the fair values of our investments in CDs, mutual funds, and U.S. Treasury securities as of December 31, 2010. 58 Table of Contents 
 
