ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes. This section provides additional information regarding Discovery Communications, Inc.s (Discovery, Company, we, us, or our) businesses, recent developments, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, contractual commitments and critical accounting policies. CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our business, marketing and operating strategies, integration of acquired businesses, new service offerings, financial prospects and anticipated sources and uses of capital. Words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. The following include some but not all of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: the inability of advertisers or affiliates to remit payment to us in a timely manner or at all; general economic and business conditions; industry trends, including the timing of, and spending on, feature film, television and television commercial production; spending on domestic and foreign television advertising and foreign first run and existing content libraries; the regulatory and competitive environment of the industries in which we, and the entities in which we have interests, operate; continued consolidation of broadband distribution and production companies; uncertainties inherent in the development of new business lines and business strategies; financial performance of our equity method investees may differ from current estimates used and impact our results of operations; integration of acquired businesses; uncertainties associated with product and service development and market acceptance, including the development and provision of programming for new television and telecommunications technologies; changes in the distribution and viewing of television programming, including the expanded deployment of personal video recorders, video on demand (VOD), internet protocol television, mobile personal devices and personal tablets and their impact on television advertising revenue; rapid technological changes; future financial performance, including availability, terms, and deployment of capital; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and political unrest in international markets; the ability of suppliers and vendors to deliver products, equipment, software and services; the outcome of any pending or threatened litigation; availability of qualified personnel; the possibility of an industry wide strike or other job action affecting a major entertainment industry union, or the duration of any existing strike or job action; changes in, or failure or inability to comply with, government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and adverse outcomes from regulatory proceedings; changes in income taxes applicable to our operations due to regulatory changes or changes in our corporate structure; changes in the nature of key strategic relationships with partners and equity method investee partners; competitor responses to our products and services and the products and services of the entities in which we have interests; threatened terrorist attacks and military action; reduced access to capital markets or significant increases in costs to borrow; a failure to secure affiliate agreements or renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms; and a reduction of advertising revenue associated with unexpected reductions in the number of subscribers. For additional risk factors, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. These forward looking statements and such risks, uncertainties and other factors speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward looking statement contained herein, to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto, or any other change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a global nonfiction media and entertainment company that provides programming across multiple distribution platforms throughout the world. We distribute customized programming, in over 40 languages, in the U.S. and over 200 other countries and territories. Our global portfolio of networks includes prominent television brands such as Discovery Channel, one of the first nonfiction networks and our most widely distributed global brand, TLC and Animal Planet. We also have a diversified portfolio of websites and other digital media services, develop and sell curriculum based products and services, and provide postproduction audio services. Our objectives are to invest in content for our networks to build viewership, optimize distribution revenue, capture advertising sales, and create or reposition additional branded channels and businesses that can sustain long term growth and occupy a desired programming niche with strong consumer appeal. Our strategy is to optimize the distribution, ratings, and profit potential of each of our branded networks. In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenue for our branded networks, we are extending content distribution across new platforms, including brand aligned websites, mobile devices, VOD, broadband channels and on line streaming, which provide promotional platforms for our television programming and serve as additional outlets for advertising and distribution revenue. 25 Table of Contents Our media content is designed to target key audience demographics and the popularity of our programming creates a reason for advertisers to purchase commercial time on our channels. Audience ratings are a key driver in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, DTH satellite operators, and other content distributors to deliver our programming to their customers. We classify our operations in three segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic television networks, websites, and other digital media services; International Networks, consisting primarily of international television networks and websites; and Education and Other, consisting principally of curriculum based product and service offerings and postproduction audio services. U.S. Networks U.S. Networks generated net revenues of $2,619 million during 2011, which represented 62% of our total consolidated net revenues. This segment wholly owns and operates nine national television networks, including fully distributed television networks such as Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet. In addition, this segment holds our interests in OWN, The Hub, and 3net, which are networks operated by equity method investees. We account for our interests in the underlying ventures using the equity method and services provided to them as other revenue. U.S. Networks generates revenues from fees charged to distributors of our network content, which include cable and DTH satellite service providers and digital distributors, from advertising sold on our television networks and other arrangements. Distribution fees are largely based on the number of subscribers receiving our programming. Distribution revenues are recognized net of incentives we provide to operators in exchange for carrying our networks. Incentives may include launch incentives, providing the channel to the distributor for free for a predetermined length of time, or both. Launch incentives are capitalized as assets upon launch of our network by the operator and are amortized on a straight line basis as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract, including free periods. Advertising revenues are dependent upon a number of factors including the number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our programming, and our ability to sell commercial time over a group of channels. Our U.S. Networks segment also generates income to offset expenses associated with providing affiliate and advertising sales representation and network services for equity method investee networks and the licensing of our brands for consumer products. During 2011, distribution, advertising, and other revenues were 45%, 51%, and 4%, respectively, of total net revenues for this segment. The Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet collectively generated 72% of U.S. Networks total net revenues. U.S. Networks largest single cost is content expense, including content amortization, content impairments and production costs. U.S. Networks amortizes the cost of capitalized content rights based on the proportion that current estimated revenues bear to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues, which normally results in an accelerated amortization method over the estimated useful lives. Certain networks utilize a straight line method of amortization over the estimated useful lives of the content. On January 1, 2011, we contributed the domestic Discovery Health network to OWN. The contribution included affiliate relationships with cable operators and DTH satellite service providers, content licenses, and website user information. The contribution did not impact our ownership interest, voting control, or governance rights related to OWN, but was accompanied by an equitable partner contribution to OWN. We recorded our contribution at fair value, which resulted in a pretax gain of $129 million. The gain resulted in $27 million of tax expense. Following the contribution, we no longer consolidate the domestic Discovery Health network. Additional information is discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. International Networks International Networks generated net revenues of $1,455 million during 2011, which represented 34% of our total consolidated net revenues. International Networks consists of national and pan regional television networks and a portfolio of websites. The Discovery Channel, Animal Planet and TLC lead the International Networks portfolio of television networks, which are distributed in virtually every pay television market in the world through an infrastructure that includes operational centers in London, Singapore, and Miami. Of U.S. television companies, our International Networks segment has one of the largest international distribution platforms of television networks with one to twelve networks in more than 200 countries and territories. International Networks also has free to air networks in the U.K., Germany, Italy and Spain. At December 31, 2011, International Networks operated over 150 unique distribution feeds in over 40 languages with channel feeds customized according to language needs and advertising sales opportunities. The International Networks segment continues to pursue international expansion in select areas. For example, in 2010, we began the international rollout of TLC as a female targeted global flagship and have launched TLC or a similarly branded network which uses TLC content in over 150 countries and territories. During 2011, the Company acquired a factual entertainment production company in the U.K. and a cable channel in Latin America to further improve the global strength of TLC. 26 Table of Contents On November 12, 2010, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in substantially all of the international Animal Planet and Liv (formerly People + Arts) networks from the BBC, increasing our ownership of these networks to 100%. Previously, these networks were operated as 50 50 ventures between us and the BBC. We determined that we were the primary beneficiary of the ventures, and therefore, consolidated them prior to the acquisition. With this acquisition, we wholly own and operate most of our international television networks, except for channels in Japan and Canada, which are operated by equity method investees that have strategically important local investment partners. On February 17, 2010, we acquired all interests in an uplink facility in the U.K., including its employees and operations, for a payment of $35 million. The uplink facility has been included in the International Networks segment operating results since the date of acquisition. On September 1, 2010, we sold Antenna Audio Limited, which was a component of our International Networks segment, which is reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Similar to our U.S. Networks segment, the primary sources of revenues for International Networks are fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, which primarily include cable and DTH satellite service providers, and from advertising sold on our television networks. Distribution fees are based on the number of subscribers receiving our programming and are recognized net of launch incentives. International television markets vary in their stages of development. Some, notably the U.K., are more advanced digital multi channel television markets, while others remain in the analog environment with varying degrees of investment from operators in expanding channel capacity or converting to digital. Advertising revenues are dependent upon a number of factors including the stage of development of pay television markets, number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our programming, and our ability to sell commercial time over a group of channels. In developing pay television markets, we expect advertising revenue growth will result from subscriber growth, our localization strategy, and the shift of advertising spending from broadcast to pay television. In relatively mature markets, such as Western Europe, increased market penetration and distribution are unlikely to drive rapid growth in those markets. Instead, growth in advertising sales will come from increasing viewership and advertising pricing on our existing pay television networks and launching new services, either in pay television or free television environments. During 2011, distribution, advertising, and other revenues were 61%, 35%, and 4%, respectively, of total net revenues for this segment. International Networks largest cost is content expense. International Networks executes a localization strategy by offering programming from U.S. Networks, customized content, and localized schedules via our distribution feeds. While our International Networks segment maximizes the use of programming from our U.S. Networks segment, we also develop local programming that is tailored to individual market preferences. International Networks amortizes the cost of capitalized content rights based on the proportion that current estimated revenues bear to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues, which results in either an accelerated method or a straight line method over the estimated useful lives. Effective January 1, 2011, we realigned our International Networks reporting structure into the following four regions: Western Europe, which includes the U.K. and western European countries; Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (CEEMEA); Latin America; and Asia Pacific. Previously, International Networks regional operations reported into the following four regions: the U.K.; Europe (excluding the U.K.), the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia Pacific; and Latin America. This realignment did not impact our consolidated financial statements other than to change the regions in which we describe our operating results for the International Networks segment. Education and Other Education and Other generated net revenues of $162 million during 2011, which represented 4% of our total consolidated net revenues. Our Education and Other segment is primarily comprised of curriculum based product and service offerings and postproduction audio services. Our education business generates revenues primarily from subscriptions charged to K 12 schools for access to an online suite of curriculum based VOD tools, professional development services, student assessment tools, publication of hardcopy curriculum based content, corporate partnerships, and global brand and content licensing. Other businesses primarily include postproduction audio services that are provided to major motion picture studios, independent producers, broadcast networks, cable channels, advertising agencies, and interactive producers. 27 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2011 vs. 2010 Items Impacting Comparability Following the contribution of the domestic Discovery Health network to OWN on January 1, 2011, we no longer consolidate the network. The comparability of our results of operations between 2011 and 2010 has been impacted by the deconsolidation. Accordingly, to assist the reader in better understanding the changes in our results of operations, the following table presents the results of operations of the Discovery Health network for 2010 (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 Revenues: Distribution $ 15 Advertising 62 Other 1 Total revenues 78 Costs of revenues 32 Selling, general and administrative 13 Restructuring and impairment charges 1 Total operating expenses 46 Operating income $ 32 Reclassifications We expanded the types of revenue included in distribution revenue in our consolidated statements of operations during 2011 and reclassified related prior year amounts. Distribution revenues include fees charged for the right to view Discovery network branded content made available to customers through a variety of distribution platforms and viewing devices. The largest component of distribution revenue continues to be fees charged to cable, DTH satellite and telecommunications service providers for distribution rights to Discoverys television networks. Distribution revenue also includes fees charged for certain licensing arrangements, including those for digital streaming of library content, which totaled $109 million in 2011. These fees, which totaled $25 million in 2010, were previously classified as other revenue and have been reclassified to distribution revenue to conform to the current presentation. 28 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations 2011 vs. 2010 Our consolidated results of operations for 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 % Change Revenues: Distribution $ 2,070 $ 1,832 13 % Advertising 1,852 1,645 13 % Other 313 296 6 % Total revenues 4,235 3,773 12 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization 1,233 1,073 15 % Selling, general and administrative 1,183 1,185 % Depreciation and amortization 119 130 (8 )% Restructuring and impairment charges 30 25 20 % Gains on dispositions (129 ) NM Total costs and expenses 2,436 2,413 1 % Operating income 1,799 1,360 32 % Interest expense, net (208 ) (203 ) 2 % Loss on extinguishment of debt (136 ) (100 )% Other expense, net (32 ) (86 ) (63 )% Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,559 935 67 % Provision for income taxes (425 ) (288 ) 48 % Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 1,134 647 75 % (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (1 ) 22 NM Net income 1,133 669 69 % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) (16 ) (94 )% Net income attributable to Discovery Communications, Inc. 1,132 653 73 % Stock dividends to preferred interests (1 ) (100 )% Net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders $ 1,132 $ 652 74 % NM not meaningful. Revenues Distribution revenues increased $238 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the effect of no longer consolidating the Discovery Health network, distribution revenues increased 12%, or $226 million. During 2011, we extended and expanded an agreement to license selected library titles. As a result of titles delivered under this and similar agreements, license revenue increased $84 million. The remaining distribution revenue increase was attributable to contractual rate increases and growth of pay television services and subscribers. Advertising revenues increased $207 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the effect of no longer consolidating the Discovery Health network, advertising revenues increased 16%, or $253 million. Increases were primarily due to worldwide increases in pricing, higher sellouts at U.S. Networks, and international expansion and rebranding of networks. Advertising revenues also benefited from $13 million in non recurring revenue items at our U.S. Networks operating segment. Other revenues increased $17 million, due to $33 million for the growth in services provided to our unconsolidated equity method investees. Increases also came from our education business. These increases were partially offset by no longer providing services to The Travel Channel. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the effect of no longer consolidating the Discovery Health network did not significantly impact other revenues. 29 Table of Contents Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, distribution costs, and sales commissions, increased $160 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the effect of no longer consolidating the Discovery Health network, costs of revenues increased 17%, or $181 million. The increase in costs of revenues was principally related to higher content expense of $155 million, which primarily reflects our continued investment in content, the international expansion of TLC, $26 million for content impairments and accelerated content amortization, and $11 million for charges associated with the licensing of selected library titles. Costs of revenues also increased due to higher distribution costs and sales commissions. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs, occupancy, and back office support fees, decreased $2 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the effect of no longer consolidating the Discovery Health network, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2%, or $19 million. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases of $83 million for stock based compensation. Stock based compensation expense decreased $100 million due to a decline in outstanding unit awards and stock appreciation rights (SARs), which are cash settled awards, partially offset by an increase in expense of $17 million for stock options, performance based restricted stock units (PRSUs) and service based restricted stock units (RSUs). The decreases in stock based compensations expense were partially offset by higher employee compensation costs, increases in headcount, increased costs related to the international expansion of TLC, greater presence in CEEMEA, and increased research costs related to obtaining ratings services for additional networks. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense, which includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of finite lived intangible assets, decreased $11 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, depreciation and amortization expense decreased 16%, or $23 million, due to lower asset balances as a result of property, equipment and intangible assets becoming fully depreciated in prior periods. Restructuring and Impairment Charges In 2011, we recorded $30 million of restructuring and impairment charges, which was comprised of $10 million of exit and restructuring charges and a $20 million goodwill impairment charge. Exit and restructuring charges for 2011 primarily related to various employee terminations and organizational changes. The goodwill impairment charge was due to lower than expected operating performance at our commerce business, which is a component of our U.S. Networks segment. During 2010, we recorded $25 million of restructuring and impairment charges, which was comprised of $14 million of exit and restructuring charges and an $11 million goodwill impairment charge. Exit and restructuring charges for 2010 related to the realignment of our reporting regions at our International Networks segment, cost reduction initiatives in the U.S., and the contribution of the Discovery Health network to OWN. The charges primarily consisted of severance costs associated with the elimination of certain positions and contract termination expenses. The goodwill impairment charge was due to lower than expected operating performance at our postproduction audio business, which is a component of our Education and Other segment. Gains on Dispositions In connection with the contribution of the Discovery Health network to OWN on January 1, 2011, we recorded a pretax gain of $129 million, which represents the fair value of the investment retained less the book basis of contributed assets. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net, was relatively flat in 2011 compared to the prior year, due to an increase in the amount of outstanding debt offset by a decrease in interest expense related to realized losses on interest rate swaps recorded during the prior year. During 2010, most of our interest rate swaps either matured or were settled prior to maturity as a result of refinancing most of our debt in June 2010. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In June 2010, we refinanced most of our outstanding debt. In connection with the repayment of $2.9 billion of existing debt outstanding under our term loans and private senior notes, we recognized a $136 million loss on extinguishment of debt, which included $114 million for make whole premiums, $12 million of noncash write offs of unamortized deferred financing costs and $10 million for the repayment of the original issue discount from our term loans. 30 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consisted of the following (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Unrealized gains on derivative instruments, net $ 2 $ 13 Realized losses on derivative instruments, net (3 ) (42 ) Loss from equity investees, net (35 ) (57 ) Other, net 4 Total other expense, net $ (32 ) $ (86 ) The decrease in realized losses on derivative instruments is a result of reducing the derivatives held by us as part of the issuance of senior notes on June 30, 2010. The decrease in losses from equity method investments was primarily attributable to changes associated with our investment in OWN. While we recognized 100% of OWNs losses prior to OWNs launch on January 1, 2011, we have recognized 50% of OWNs losses subsequent to the launch. During 2012, the Company expects operating losses at OWN to exceed the balance of equity contributions recorded by OWN. Once the equity balance of OWN is depleted, Discovery expects to continue to fund OWN and will record 100% of any future operating losses of OWN in loss from equity investees, net. Future net income generated by OWN will initially be allocated 100% to us until previously recognized losses in excess of our ownership percentage have been recouped. Provision for Income Taxes For 2011 and 2010, our provisions for income taxes were $425 million and $288 million and the effective tax rates were 27% and 31%, respectively. Discoverys effective tax rate for 2011 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% principally because our legal entity reorganization resulted in the recognition of $112 million net benefit for foreign tax credits as discussed below and production activity deductions, which were partially offset by state income taxes. The Company was not required to record a deferred tax liability of $21 million with respect to the portion of the outside basis in the OWN venture attributable to the nondeductible goodwill contributed to OWN. In November 2011, the Company reorganized certain of its international operations to better align its functions and establish a regional ownership structure. The regional holding companies are foreign corporations whose earnings will not be taxed in the U.S. until the earnings are repatriated back to the U.S. The Company will not record a provision for deferred U.S. tax expense that could result from the remittance of such undistributed earnings since the Company intends to reinvest the earnings outside the U.S. indefinitely. As a result of the international reorganization, the Company has entered into intercompany license and royalty agreements with certain of its controlled foreign corporations to allow the foreign corporations to use intangible property owned by the parent company. The license fees will result in incremental U.S. tax expense which will be recognized over the four year estimated useful life of the intangible property. This incremental tax expense will be partially mitigated by the Companys ability to utilize foreign tax credits for taxes which were deducted in prior years. As a result, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $112 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 related to the foreign tax credits, which were previously not considered realizable. Due to the lower statutory and negotiated tax rates in the foreign corporations jurisdictions, the Company expects a favorable impact on the effective tax rate in the future under the new operating structure. Our effective tax rate for 2010 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to the reversal of a $28 million foreign tax reserve as a result of a foreign tax authority completing its tax audit and providing us notification that certain tax years will not be adjusted and production activity deductions, which were partially offset by state taxes. (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes Loss from discontinued operations in 2011 relates to activities connected with businesses classified as discontinued operations in previous years. Income from discontinued operations in 2010 relates to the sale of our Antenna Audio business and the elimination of an obligation to ACG an entity spun off in 2008. 31 Table of Contents Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests The $15 million decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was due to the acquisition of the BBCs interests in the international Animal Planet and Liv networks on November 12, 2010. Following the acquisition, we no longer allocate net operating results to noncontrolling interests of these networks. Segment Results of Operations 2011 vs. 2010 We evaluate the operating performance of our segments based on financial measures such as revenues and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization (Adjusted OIBDA). Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark to market stock based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) certain impairment charges, and (vi) gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions. We use this measure to assess the operating results and performance of our segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance, and allocate resources to each segment. We believe Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses. We exclude mark to market stock based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, certain impairment charges, and gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility. We also exclude the depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets and deferred launch incentives as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. Adjusted OIBDA should be considered in addition to, but not a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flows provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Additionally, certain corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate segment performance based upon decisions made directly by segment executives. Additional financial information for our segments and geographical areas in which we do business is discussed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA was calculated as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 % Change Revenues: U.S. Networks $ 2,619 $ 2,363 11 % International Networks 1,455 1,251 16 % Education and Other 162 153 6 % Corporate and inter segment eliminations (1 ) 6 NM Total revenues 4,235 3,773 12 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization(1) (1,233 ) (1,073 ) 15 % Selling, general and administrative(1) (1,140 ) (1,043 ) 9 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives(2) 52 42 24 % Adjusted OIBDA $ 1,914 $ 1,699 13 % NM not meaningful. (1) Costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses exclude mark to market stock based compensation, depreciation and amortization, restructuring and impairment charges, and gains on dispositions. (2) Amortization of deferred launch incentives are included as a reduction of distribution revenues for reporting in accordance with GAAP, but are excluded from Adjusted OIBDA. 32 Table of Contents The following table presents our Adjusted OIBDA, by segment, with a reconciliation of total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA to consolidated operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 % Change Adjusted OIBDA: U.S. Networks $ 1,495 $ 1,365 10 % International Networks 645 545 18 % Education and Other 23 15 53 % Corporate and inter segment eliminations (249 ) (226 ) 10 % Total Adjusted OIBDA 1,914 1,699 13 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (52 ) (42 ) 24 % Mark to market stock based compensation (43 ) (142 ) (70 )% Depreciation and amortization (119 ) (130 ) (8 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (30 ) (25 ) 20 % Gains on dispositions 129 NM Operating income $ 1,799 $ 1,360 32 % NM not meaningful. U.S. Networks The following table presents, for our U.S. Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). While the table below discloses reported amounts, the discussion of segment results that follows compares the current year operating results to the prior years excluding the impact of the Discovery Health network. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 % Change Revenues: Distribution $ 1,180 $ 1,054 12 % Advertising 1,337 1,222 9 % Other 102 87 17 % Total revenues 2,619 2,363 11 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (689 ) (573 ) 20 % Selling, general and administrative (445 ) (432 ) 3 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 10 7 43 % Adjusted OIBDA 1,495 1,365 10 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (10 ) (7 ) 43 % Depreciation and amortization (15 ) (21 ) (29 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (24 ) (3 ) NM Gains on dispositions 129 NM Operating income $ 1,575 $ 1,334 18 % NM not meaningful. Revenues Distribution revenues increased $141 million, excluding the impact of the Discovery Health network, primarily due to the extension and expansion of an agreement to license selected library titles. As a result of titles delivered under this and similar agreements, license revenue increased $81 million. The remaining distribution revenue increase was attributable to annual contractual rate increases, and increases in paying subscribers, principally for our fully distributed networks carried on the digital tier. 33 Table of Contents Advertising revenues increased $177 million, excluding the impact of Discovery Health network, which was driven by increased pricing in the upfront and scatter markets, and higher sellouts. Advertising revenues also benefited from $13 million in non recurring revenue items. Other revenues increased $16 million, excluding the impact of the Discovery Health network, due to $32 million for the growth in revenues from services provided to our unconsolidated equity method investees. These increases were partially offset by no longer providing services to The Travel Channel. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, increased $148 million, excluding the impact of the Discovery Health network. The increase in costs of revenues was principally related to higher content expense, which primarily reflects our continued investment in content, as well as increases of $11 million for an accelerated charge associated with the licensing of selected library titles and $24 million for content impairments and accelerated content amortization. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, increased $26 million, excluding the impact of the Discovery Health network. Increased selling, general and administrative expenses were attributable to higher research expenses from the newly rated networks and other costs, which were partially offset by lower marketing expenses. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $163 million, excluding the impact of the Discovery Health network, primarily due to increased distribution revenues largely generated from licensing of selected library titles, contractual rate increases with our affiliates, and higher advertising sales, partially offset by higher content expense and selling, general and administrative expenses. International Networks The following table presents, for our International Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 % Change Revenues: Distribution $ 890 $ 778 14 % Advertising 514 422 22 % Other 51 51 % Total revenues 1,455 1,251 16 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (455 ) (405 ) 12 % Selling, general and administrative (397 ) (336 ) 18 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 42 35 20 % Adjusted OIBDA 645 545 18 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (42 ) (35 ) 20 % Depreciation and amortization (43 ) (39 ) 10 % Restructuring and impairment charges (3 ) (9 ) (67 )% Operating income $ 557 $ 462 21 % NM not meaningful. Revenues Distribution revenues increased $112 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, distribution revenues increased 11%, or $85 million, which is attributable to continued growth of pay television services and subscribers across all regions. 34 Table of Contents Advertising revenues increased $92 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, advertising revenues increased by 18%, or $76 million, due to improved pricing across all regions as well as from increased viewership at new and rebranded networks which use TLC content. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, distribution costs, and sales commissions, increased $50 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, cost of revenues increased 10%, or $39 million, due to increased content expense of $27 million for the international rollout of TLC and higher sales commissions across most regions. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, increased $61 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 9%, or $31 million, attributable to a greater presence in CEEMEA, the international rollout of TLC, and other expenses in Latin America. The variance in foreign currency largely results from working capital revaluations for European and Asian entities. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $100 million, primarily due to the growth of television services and subscribers across all regions driving higher distribution and advertising revenues as well as higher costs of revenues and selling, general, and administrative expenses. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not significantly impact Adjusted OIBDA. Education and Other The following table presents, for our Education and Other segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating (loss) income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 % Change Revenues: Advertising $ 1 $ 1 % Other 161 152 6 % Total revenues 162 153 6 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (87 ) (91 ) (4 )% Selling, general and administrative (52 ) (47 ) 11 % Adjusted OIBDA 23 15 53 % Depreciation and amortization (5 ) (6 ) (17 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (11 ) (100 )% Operating (loss) income $ 18 $ (2 ) NM NM not meaningful. Revenues Other revenues increased $9 million, primarily due to continued growth in subscriptions for access to an online streaming service that includes a suite of curriculum based tools, growth in corporate partnerships, and assessment services for our educational business. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist principally of content expense, royalty payments, distribution costs and sales commissions, were consistent between 2011 and 2010. 35 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which are principally comprised of employee costs, occupancy expenses, back office support fees, and marketing costs, increased $5 million due to higher employee expenses for additional headcount. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $8 million, primarily due to continued growth in online streaming services, partially offset by increased employee expenses. Corporate and Inter segment Eliminations The following table presents, for our unallocated corporate amounts, revenues, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating loss (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 % Change Revenues: Other $ (1 ) $ 6 NM Total revenues (1 ) 6 NM Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (2 ) (4 ) (50 )% Selling, general and administrative (246 ) (228 ) 8 % Adjusted OIBDA (249 ) (226 ) 10 % Mark to market stock based compensation (43 ) (142 ) (70 )% Depreciation and amortization (56 ) (64 ) (13 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (3 ) (2 ) 50 % Operating loss $ (351 ) $ (434 ) (19 )% NM not meaningful. Corporate operations primarily consist of executive management, administrative support services, substantially all of our stock based compensation, and a consolidated joint venture. Consistent with our segment reporting, corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate business segment performance based upon decisions made directly by business segment executives. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $18 million due to higher stock based compensation expense for equity settled awards such as stock options, PRSUs, and RSUs that received fixed accounting. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2010 vs. 2009 Reclassifications We expanded the types of revenue included in distribution revenue in our consolidated statements of operations during 2011 and reclassified related prior year amounts. Distribution revenues include fees charged for the right to view Discovery network branded content made available to customers through a variety of distribution platforms and viewing devices. The largest component of distribution revenue continues to be fees charged to cable, DTH satellite and telecommunications service providers for distribution rights to Discoverys television networks. Distribution revenue also includes fees charged for certain licensing arrangements, including those for digital streaming of library content. These fees, which totaled $25 million and $21 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, were previously classified as other revenue and have been reclassified to distribution revenue to conform to the current presentation. 36 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations 2010 vs. 2009 Our consolidated results of operation for 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Revenues: Distribution $ 1,832 $ 1,719 7 % Advertising 1,645 1,427 15 % Other 296 312 (5 )% Total revenues 3,773 3,458 9 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization 1,073 1,044 3 % Selling, general and administrative 1,185 1,188 % Depreciation and amortization 130 152 (14 )% Restructuring and impairment charges 25 52 (52 )% Gains on dispositions (252 ) (100 )% Total costs and expenses 2,413 2,184 10 % Operating income 1,360 1,274 7 % Interest expense, net (203 ) (248 ) (18 )% Loss on extinguishment of debt (136 ) NM Other (expense) income, net (86 ) 13 NM Income from continuing operations before income taxes 935 1,039 (10 )% Provision for income taxes (288 ) (469 ) (39 )% Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 647 570 14 % Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 22 (6 ) NM Net income 669 564 19 % Less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (16 ) (15 ) 7 % Net income attributable to Discovery Communications, Inc. 653 549 19 % Stock dividends to preferred interests (1 ) (8 ) (88 )% Net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders $ 652 $ 541 21 % NM not meaningful. Revenues Distribution revenues increased $113 million, which was driven by contractual rate increases, subscriber growth and reduced amortization of deferred launch incentives. These increases were partially offset by an $18 million decline for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009 and changes in our channel mix in EMEA. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not significantly impact distribution revenues. Advertising revenues increased $218 million, which was attributable to increased pricing, higher inventory utilization, and greater audience delivery. These increases were partially offset by the absence of a $6 million settlement of a prior contract dispute in 2009. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not significantly impact advertising revenues. Other revenues decreased $16 million as a result of an affiliate and advertising sales representation agreement ending in May 2010, transitioning our commerce business model in early 2009, and lower DVD sales at a consolidated joint venture. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the number of subscriptions to our online curriculum based education tools. Other revenues were not significantly impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 37 Table of Contents Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, distribution costs and sales commissions, increased $29 million. The increase in costs of revenues was due to higher content expense, sales commissions, and license fees for music rights. Content expense increased $8 million, reflecting our continued investment in programming. Sales commissions increased $17 million due to improved advertising sales. The increase in license fees for music rights was due to the absence of a $6 million reversal of liabilities recorded in 2009 as a result of changes in estimates for amounts accrued in prior periods. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009, an $11 million decline due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009, and lower costs related to DVD sales. Cost revenues were not significantly impacted by changes in foreign currency rates. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, decreased $3 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1%. The increase was attributable to higher marketing and personnel costs due to increased promotion of our programs, expanded distribution of our international networks, and growth in our education business, partially offset by a decline in stock based compensation. Stock based compensation decreased $46 million driven by a decline in the number of outstanding cash settled awards, which was partially offset by an increase in the fair value of outstanding awards and an increase in the number of stock settled awards. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense, which includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of finite lived intangible assets, decreased $22 million. The decrease was due primarily to lower property and equipment and finite lived intangible asset balances, which were attributable to certain assets becoming fully amortized and impairment charges recorded in prior periods. Restructuring and Impairment Charges In 2010, we recorded $25 million of restructuring and impairment charges, which were comprised of $14 million of exit and restructuring charges and an $11 million goodwill impairment charge. Exit and restructuring charges for 2010 related to the realignment of our reporting regions at our International Networks segment, cost reduction initiatives in the U.S., and the contribution of the Discovery Health network to OWN. The charges primarily consisted of severance costs associated with the elimination of certain positions and contract termination expenses. The goodwill impairment charge was due to lower than expected operating performance at our postproduction audio business, which is a component of our Education and Other segment. During 2009, we recorded $52 million of restructuring and impairment charges, which consisted of $26 million related to exit and restructuring charges and $26 million of goodwill impairment charges. The exit and restructuring charges incurred during 2009 related to realignments of portions of our operations to better align our organizational structure with our strategic priorities, the transition of our commerce business to a licensing model, and cost reduction initiatives. The realignment reflected changes to our organizational structure in an effort to centralize certain functions that were previously performed by various departments. The charges primarily consisted of severance costs associated with the elimination of certain positions and contract termination expenses. The impairment charges related to certain intangible assets and software at our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments. Gains on Dispositions In connection with deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009, we recorded a pretax gain of $252 million. The gain comprised $125 million for the 50% interest sold to the joint venture partner and $127 million as a result of stepping up our basis for the 50% interest retained in the joint venture. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net decreased $45 million, which was primarily due to changes in the designation and termination of interest rate swaps as a result of refinancing most of our debt in June 2010. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In June 2010, we refinanced most of our outstanding debt. In connection with the repayment of $2.9 billion of existing debt outstanding under our term loans and private senior notes, we recognized a $136 million loss on extinguishment of debt, which included $114 million for make whole premiums, $12 million of noncash write offs of unamortized deferred financing costs and $10 million for the repayment of the original issue discount from our term loans. 38 Table of Contents Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net consisted of the following (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Unrealized gains on derivative instruments, net $ 13 $ 26 Realized losses on derivative instruments, net (42 ) (6 ) Loss from equity investees, net (57 ) (24 ) Realized gains on sales of investments 15 Other, net 2 Total other (expense) income, net $ (86 ) $ 13 The change in net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments was primarily due to changes in the designation and termination of interest rate swaps as a result of refinancing most of our debt in June 2010. The increase in losses from equity method investments was primarily attributable to OWN, which reflects selling, general and administrative costs incurred prior to the launch of the new network on January 1, 2011. In 2009 we sold investments for $22 million, which resulted in pretax gains of $15 million. Provision for Income Taxes For 2010 and 2009, our provisions for income taxes were $288 million and $469 million and the effective tax rates were 31% and 45%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2010 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to the reversal of a $28 million foreign tax reserve, as a result of a foreign tax authority completing its tax audit and providing us notification that certain tax years will not be adjusted and production activity deductions, which were partially offset by state taxes. Our effective tax rate for 2009 differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to a permanent difference on the $252 million gain from deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009 and state income taxes, which were partially offset by deductions for domestic production activities and the release of a valuation allowance of $12 million. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes On September 1, 2010, we sold our Antenna Audio business for net proceeds of $24 million in cash, which resulted in a $9 million gain, net of taxes. We previously recorded a $12 million gain, net of taxes, in our results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. However, during the quarter ended December 31, 2010 we recorded an adjustment to a deferred tax asset, which reduced the gain by $3 million. Antenna Audio, which provides audio, multimedia and mobile tours for museums, exhibitions, historic sites and visitor attractions around the world, was a component of our International Networks segment. On September 27, 2010, we received a tax refund, which eliminated a $12 million obligation to repay amounts to AMC, which has been recorded as a benefit in 2010 in income from discontinued operations. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests The increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was due to higher operating results at consolidated entities that are not wholly owned. Stock Dividends to Preferred Interests We declared noncash stock dividends of $1 million and $8 million to our preferred stock shareholder during 2010 and 2009, respectively. We released approximately 43,000 and 254,000 of our Series A common stock and approximately 60,000 and 211,000 of our Series C common stock from escrow during 2010 and 2009, respectively, in payment of most of the dividends declared. We are contractually obligated to issue the dividends upon the issuance of our common stock to settle the exercise of stock options and stock appreciation rights that we assumed in connection with our formation on September 17, 2008. The decrease in dividends declared was due to a lower number of stock options and stock appreciation rights being exercised. 39 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations 2010 vs. 2009 We evaluate the operating performance of our segments based on financial measures such as revenues and Adjusted OIBDA. Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark to market stock based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) certain impairment charges, and (vi) gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions. We use this measure to assess the operating results and performance of our segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance, and allocate resources to each segment. We believe Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses and also provides investors a measure to analyze the operating performance of each segment against historical data. We exclude mark to market stock based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, certain impairment charges, and gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility. We also exclude the depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets and deferred launch incentives as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. Adjusted OIBDA should be considered in addition to, but not a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flows provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, certain corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate segment performance based upon decisions made directly by segment executives. Additional financial information for our segments and geographical areas in which we do business is discussed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA was calculated as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Revenues: U.S. Networks $ 2,363 $ 2,170 9 % International Networks 1,251 1,131 11 % Education and Other 153 148 3 % Corporate and inter segment eliminations 6 9 (33 )% Total revenues 3,773 3,458 9 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization(1) (1,073 ) (1,044 ) 3 % Selling, general and administrative(1) (1,043 ) (983 ) 6 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives(2) 42 55 (24 )% Adjusted OIBDA $ 1,699 $ 1,486 14 % (1) Costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses exclude mark to market stock based compensation, depreciation and amortization, restructuring and impairment charges, and gains on dispositions. (2) Amortization of deferred launch incentives are included as a reduction of distribution revenues for reporting in accordance with GAAP, but are excluded from Adjusted OIBDA. 40 Table of Contents The following table presents our Adjusted OIBDA, by segment, with a reconciliation of total consolidated Adjusted OIBDA to consolidated operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Adjusted OIBDA: U.S. Networks $ 1,365 $ 1,229 11 % International Networks 545 445 22 % Education and Other 15 16 (6 )% Corporate and inter segment eliminations (226 ) (204 ) 11 % Total Adjusted OIBDA 1,699 1,486 14 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (42 ) (55 ) (24 )% Mark to market stock based compensation (142 ) (205 ) (31 )% Depreciation and amortization (130 ) (152 ) (14 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (25 ) (52 ) (52 )% Gains on dispositions 252 (100 )% Operating income $ 1,360 $ 1,274 7 % U.S. Networks The following table presents, for our U.S. Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Revenues: Distribution $ 1,054 $ 985 7 % Advertising 1,222 1,082 13 % Other 87 103 (16 )% Total revenues 2,363 2,170 9 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (573 ) (544 ) 5 % Selling, general and administrative (432 ) (418 ) 3 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 7 21 (67 )% Adjusted OIBDA 1,365 1,229 11 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (7 ) (21 ) (67 )% Mark to market stock based compensation (1 ) (100 )% Depreciation and amortization (21 ) (30 ) (30 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (3 ) (31 ) (90 )% Gains on dispositions 252 (100 )% Operating income $ 1,334 $ 1,398 (5 )% Revenues Distribution revenues increased $69 million, primarily due to annual contractual rate increases for fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, an increase in paying subscribers, principally for networks carried on the digital tier, and decreased amortization of deferred launch incentives. These increases were partially offset by an $18 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009. Advertising revenues increased $140 million, which was driven by increased pricing in the upfront and scatter markets, higher sellouts, and greater audience delivery, reflecting the improved advertising market. Other revenues decreased $16 million, which was attributable to lower affiliate and advertising sales representation services for third party networks and commerce sales. The decrease in affiliate and advertising sales representation services was the result of an agreement ending in May 2010. The decline in commerce sales was due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009. 41 Table of Contents Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, sales commissions, and distribution costs, increased $29 million. The increase in costs of revenues was driven by higher content expense and sales commissions. Content expense increased $26 million due to continued investments in our programming. Sales commissions were $7 million higher due to improved advertising sales. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009 and an $11 million decline due to the transition of our commerce business model in early 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, increased $14 million. Increased selling, general and administrative expenses were attributable to higher marketing costs, which were partially offset by lower employee costs as a result of restructurings that eliminated certain positions. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $136 million, primarily due to increased advertising sales, growth in distribution revenues and lower employee costs. These improvements were partially offset by increased content expense, sales commissions, and marketing costs, as well as a decline in other revenues and a $10 million decrease for the effect of deconsolidating the U.S. Discovery Kids network in May 2009. International Networks The following table presents, for our International Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, contra revenue amounts, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Revenues: Distribution $ 778 $ 734 6 % Advertising 422 344 23 % Other 51 53 (4 )% Total revenues 1,251 1,131 11 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (405 ) (403 ) % Selling, general and administrative (336 ) (317 ) 6 % Add: Amortization of deferred launch incentives 35 34 3 % Adjusted OIBDA 545 445 22 % Amortization of deferred launch incentives (35 ) (34 ) 3 % Depreciation and amortization (39 ) (38 ) 3 % Restructuring and impairment charges (9 ) (14 ) (36 )% Operating income $ 462 $ 359 29 % Revenues Distribution revenues increased $44 million, which was attributable to growth in the number of paying subscribers in Latin America and an increase in average contractual rates for fees charged to operators who distribute our networks in the U.K. Subscribers increased due to growth in pay television services in those regions. These increases were partially offset by changes in our channel mix in EMEA. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not significantly impact distribution revenues. Advertising revenues, which increased $78 million, were higher in all international regions in which we operate. The increase in advertising revenues was driven by increased pricing in the U.K. Advertising revenues also increased in Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific as a result of higher sellouts and audience delivery. Higher sellouts reflect improvements in the advertising market. 42 Table of Contents Increased viewership was driven by growth in pay television services in international markets. These increases were partially offset by the absence of a $6 million settlement of prior contract disputes in 2009. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not significantly impact advertising revenues. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist primarily of content expense, distribution costs, and sales commissions, increased $2 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, cost of revenues increased 1%. The increase in costs of revenues was due to higher sales commissions and license fees for music rights. Sales commissions increased $8 million due to improved advertising sales. The increase in license fees for music rights was due to the absence of a $6 million reversal of liabilities in 2009 as a result of changes in estimates for amounts accrued in prior periods. These increases were partially offset by a $4 million decline in content expense, reflecting a decline in write offs. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, marketing costs, research costs and occupancy and back office support fees, increased $19 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 9%. Increased selling, general and administrative expenses were attributable to the international rollout of the TLC network, expansion in Eastern Europe, and investments in Latin America, which increased employee and marketing costs. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA increased $100 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, Adjusted OIBDA increased 20%, primarily due to increased advertising sales, growth in distribution revenues, and lower content expense. These improvements were partially offset by increased employee and marketing costs, higher sales commissions, and an increase in license fees for music rights. Education and Other The following table presents, for our Education and Other segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating (loss) income (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Revenues: Advertising $ 1 $ 1 % Other 152 147 3 % Total revenues 153 148 3 % Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (91 ) (90 ) 1 % Selling, general and administrative (47 ) (42 ) 12 % Adjusted OIBDA 15 16 (6 )% Depreciation and amortization (6 ) (6 ) % Restructuring and impairment charges (11 ) (2 ) NM Operating (loss) income $ (2 ) $ 8 NM NM not meaningful. Revenues Other revenues increased $5 million, primarily due to continued growth in subscriptions for access to an online streaming service that includes a suite of curriculum based tools, which was partially offset by a decline in postproduction audio services. The decline in postproduction audio services was driven by the overall decline in the DVD marketplace. 43 Table of Contents Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues, which consist principally of content expense and royalty payments, were consistent between 2010 and 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses, which principally comprise employee costs, occupancy and back office support fees and marketing costs, increased $5 million due to higher employee costs as a result of hiring additional personnel to support the growth in our education business. Adjusted OIBDA Adjusted OIBDA decreased $1 million, primarily due to a decline in postproduction audio services and increased employee costs, which were partially offset by continued growth in subscriptions to curriculum based tools offered through our online streaming services. Corporate and Inter segment Eliminations The following table presents, for our unallocated corporate amounts, revenues, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating loss (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Revenues: Other $ 6 $ 9 (33 )% Total revenues 6 9 (33 )% Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization (4 ) (7 ) (43 )% Selling, general and administrative (228 ) (206 ) 11 % Adjusted OIBDA (226 ) (204 ) 11 % Mark to market stock based compensation (142 ) (204 ) (30 )% Depreciation and amortization (64 ) (78 ) (18 )% Restructuring and impairment charges (2 ) (5 ) (60 )% Operating loss $ (434 ) $ (491 ) (12 )% Corporate operations primarily consist of executive management, administrative support services, substantially all of our stock based compensation, and a consolidated joint venture. Consistent with our segment reporting, corporate expenses are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate business segment performance based upon decisions made directly by business segment executives. Other revenues and costs of revenues both declined $3 million as a result of lower DVD sales at a consolidated joint venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $22 million, which was primarily attributable to a $17 million increase in stock based compensation expense for equity settled awards such as stock options, PRSUs and RSUs that received fixed accounting. The increase in stock based compensation was driven by an increase in the number of outstanding awards and the fair value of awards granted during 2010 due to increases in the price of our Series A common stock. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Sources and Uses of Cash Our principal sources of cash are cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash flows from operating activities, available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and access to capital markets. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $2.0 billion of total capital resources available, comprised of $1.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand and approximately $1.0 billion available to borrow under our revolving credit facility. As a public company, we may have access to other sources of capital such as the public bond and equity markets. On June 17, 2009, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S 3 (Shelf Registration) with the SEC in which we registered securities, including debt securities, common stock and preferred stock. On June 20, 2011, DCL, one of 44 Table of Contents our subsidiaries, issued $650 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Senior Notes due on June 15, 2021. DCL received net proceeds of $641 million from the offering after deducting underwriting discounts and issuance costs. In total we have issued approximately $4.2 billion of public senior notes under this Shelf Registration. Access to sufficient capital from the public market is not assured. On August 8, 2011, DCL modified its $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement to extend the expiration date two years to October 12, 2015 and to reduce interest rates and fees. The terms of the arrangement are otherwise consistent with the previous arrangement. Our primary uses of cash include the creation and acquisition of new content, operating expenditures, discretionary repurchases of stock, income taxes, interest, funding to equity method investees, capital expenditures and business acquisitions. We believe our financial condition is sound and anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash generated by operating activities, and cash available to us, considered together, should be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We plan to continue to significantly invest in the creation and acquisition of new content. Additional information regarding contractual commitments to acquire content is set forth in the section titled Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. On August 3, 2010, we implemented a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we were authorized to purchase up to $1.0 billion of our common stock. On July 27, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized us to purchase an additional $1.0 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. In total, we have been authorized to purchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock under our repurchase program. We have been funding and expect to continue to fund repurchases through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and future financing transactions. Under the repurchase program, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions at prevailing prices as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements, and subject to stock price, business conditions, market conditions, and other factors. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During 2011, we repurchased 27 million shares of our Series C common stock for $997 million through open market transactions. The repurchases were funded using cash on hand. As of December 31, 2011, we had remaining authorization of $898 million for future repurchases of common stock. The $997 million aggregate purchase price of the acquired stock was recorded in a separate account as a reduction of equity. We repurchased an additional 2.65 million shares of our Series C common stock for $103 million from January 1, 2012 through February 10, 2012. We have interests in various equity method investees and provide funding to those equity method investees from time to time. As of December 31, 2011, we have an outstanding note receivable including interest accrued from OWN, our equity method investee, which totals $312 million. We currently expect to provide significant additional funding to our equity method investees and expect to recoup amounts funded. In 2012, we expect our uses of cash to include approximately $215 million for interest payments related to our outstanding indebtedness, and capital lease obligations, and approximately $60 million for capital expenditures. We expect tax payments in 2012 to increase significantly as a result of the expiration of the tax law that allows for the immediate deduction of certain domestic programming costs. Additionally, we expect to continue to make payments to settle vested cash settled equity awards. Actual amounts expensed and payable for cash settled awards are dependent on future calculations of fair value which are primarily affected by changes in our stock price or changes in the number of awards outstanding. During 2011, we paid $126 million for cash settled equity awards. As of December 31, 2011, we accrued $37 million for outstanding cash settled equity awards, of which $27 million was classified as current. 45 Table of Contents Cash Flows Changes in cash and cash equivalents were as follows (in millions). Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period $ 466 $ 623 $ 94 Cash provided by operating activities 1,100 668 642 Cash (used in) provided by investing activities (214 ) (190 ) 238 Cash used in financing activities (297 ) (641 ) (356 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (7 ) 6 5 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 582 (157 ) 529 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 1,048 $ 466 $ 623 Changes in cash and cash equivalents include amounts related to discontinued operations. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities increased $432 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven by increased operating results, a decrease in taxes paid, a decrease in interest payments, and decreases in stock compensation payments for cash settled equity awards. During 2010, there was a $112 million overpayment of tax (2010 overpayment) resulting primarily from an extension of the tax law in the fourth quarter of 2010 that allowed for the immediate deduction of certain domestic programming costs. During 2011, we received a $39 million tax refund related to the 2010 overpayment and there was a decrease in tax payments of $107 million primarily attributable to the use of the remaining overpayment carry forward from 2010. The decrease in interest payments was principally the result of $114 million of make whole premiums paid in 2010 in connection with the refinancing of most of our outstanding debt. The $32 million decrease in payments for cash settled equity awards was attributable to the decrease in number of outstanding unit awards and SARs. These improvements were partially offset by a $110 million increase in cash used by operating activities attributable to investments in programming. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by $26 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven by increased earnings, principally from increased advertising and distribution revenues at our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments, and a decrease of $49 million in tax payments, principally due to a nonrecurring tax payment in 2009 related to the gain on the U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction. These increases were partially offset by $114 million of make whole premiums paid in connection with refinancing most of our outstanding debt in June 2010 and a $77 million increase in payments for cash settled equity awards. The increase in payments for cash settled equity awards was attributable to the increase in fair value of outstanding awards due to the increase in the prices of our Series A common stock and settlements of SARs granted in late 2008 and early 2009 as part of a transition from an existing equity plan under which we typically granted cash settled awards to a new equity plan under which we typically issue stock settled awards. Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities increased $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase was attributable to a $24 million increase in funding to unconsolidated equity method investees and a $9 million increase in payments for purchases of property and equipment. The increase in funding to unconsolidated equity method investees was primarily due to continued investments in OWN, which was launched on January 1, 2011. The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2011 was partially offset by a $12 million decrease in cash used in business acquisitions, net of cash acquired. During 2011 we used $26 million for the acquisition of a factual entertainment production company in the U.K. and a Latin American cable channel. Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 included $35 million for the acquisition of an uplink facility. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $190 million as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $238 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decline in cash flows from investing activities was due to a decline in cash from business and investment dispositions, an increase in cash used for business acquisitions, and increased funding payments to unconsolidated ventures, which were partially offset by a reduction in capital expenditures. Cash used in investing activities during 2010 consisted of $127 million in funding to our unconsolidated network ventures, payments of $49 million for property and equipment acquisitions and $35 million for the purchase of an uplink facility, which were partially offset by net proceeds of $24 million related to the sale of our Antenna Audio business. 46 Table of Contents Cash provided by investing activities for 2009 principally included a $300 million nonrecurring payment received in connection with the Discovery Kids Transaction and $24 million in proceeds from the sale of investments, which were partially offset by $55 million of property and equipment acquisitions and $31 million in funding to our unconsolidated ventures. Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities decreased $344 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The cash flows used in financing activities were principally attributable to repurchases of 27 million shares of Series C common stock for $997 million made pursuant to our stock repurchase program implemented on August 3, 2010, and repayments of our capital lease obligations, partially offset by our issuance of $650 million of senior notes in June 2011 for which we received $641 million of net proceeds. We paid an additional $2 million in financing fees associated with our modified credit agreement. Cash flows used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $285 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in cash used in financing activities during 2010 was driven by $2.9 billion of additional repayments made on term loans and private senior notes, $605 million used during 2010 to repurchase shares of the Companys Series C common and Series C preferred stock, and $148 million paid during 2010 for the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership interest in the international Animal Planet and Liv networks. The increases in cash flows used in financing activities during 2010 were partially offset by $3.0 billion of additional debt offering proceeds received during 2010, $38 million of additional proceeds received during 2010 for stock options exercised and excess tax benefits from stock based compensation, and a reduction of repayments made on revolver loans during 2010, since repayments totaled $315 million during 2009. Capital Resources As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $2 billion of total capital resources available, which was comprised of the following (in millions). As of December 31, 2011 TotalCapacity OutstandingLetters ofCredit OutstandingIndebtedness UnusedCapacity Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,048 $ $ $ 1,048 Revolving credit facility 1,000 1 999 Fixed rate public debt: 3.70% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due June 2015 850 850 5.625% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due August 2019 500 500 5.05% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due June 2020 1,300 1,300 4.375% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due June 2021 650 650 6.35% Senior Notes, semi annual interest, due June 2040 850 850 4,150 4,150 Total $ 6,198 $ 1 $ 4,150 $ 2,047 As of December 31, 2011, $51 million of the Companys $1.05 billion of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign corporations. We intend to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. Additional information regarding the changes in our outstanding indebtedness and the significant terms and provisions of our revolving credit facility and outstanding indebtedness is discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 47 Table of Contents COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2011, our significant contractual obligations, including related payments due by period, were as follows (in millions). Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Long term debt: Principal payments $ 4,150 $ $ $ 850 $ 3,300 Interest payments 2,702 208 415 368 1,711 Capital lease obligations Principal payments 106 26 24 20 36 Interest payments 27 7 9 6 5 Operating lease obligations 306 64 104 65 73 Purchase obligations: Content 402 336 64 2 Other 592 171 175 42 204 Total $ 8,285 $ 812 $ 791 $ 1,353 $ 5,329 The above table does not include certain long term obligations reflected on our consolidated balance sheet as the timing or the amount of the payments cannot be predicted. Such funding obligations include funding commitments to equity method investees. As of December 31, 2011, we are committed to fund up to $234 million to equity method investees, of which $209 million has been funded. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, we have accrued $37 million for cash settled stock based compensation awards, which are remeasured at fair value each reporting period. Reserves for income taxes have been excluded from the above table because we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of our reserves for income taxes. Our reserves for income taxes totaled $46 million as of December 31, 2011. Long term Debt Principal payments on long term debt reflect the repayment of our outstanding senior notes, at face value, assuming repayment will occur upon maturity. Interest payments on our outstanding senior notes are projected based on the notes contractual rate and maturity. Capital Lease Obligations We acquire satellite transponders and other equipment through multi year capital lease arrangements. Principal payments on capital lease obligations reflect amounts due under our capital leases agreements. Interest payments on our outstanding capital lease obligations are based on the stated or implied rate in our capital lease agreements. Operating Lease Obligations We obtain office space and equipment under multi year lease arrangements. Most operating leases are not cancelable prior to their expiration. Payments for operating leases represent the amounts due under the agreements assuming the agreements are not canceled prior to their expiration. Purchase Obligations Content purchase obligations include obligations for contracts with certain third party producers for the production of programming that airs on our television networks. Production contracts generally require us to purchase a specified number of episodes of the program. Content purchase obligations also include program licenses that typically require payments over the terms of the licenses. Licensed programming includes both programs that have been delivered and are available for airing and programs that have not yet been produced. If the programs are not produced, our commitments would generally expire without obligation. We expect to enter into additional production contracts and program licenses to meet our future programming needs. 48 Table of Contents Other purchase obligations include multi year agreements with certain vendors and suppliers for the purchase of goods and services whereby the underlying agreements are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms. Significant purchase obligations include transmission services, television rating services, marketing research, employment contracts, equipment purchases, and information technology and other services. These contracts typically do not require the purchase of fixed or minimum quantities and generally may be terminated with a 30 day to 60 day advance notice without penalty. Amounts related to employment contracts include base compensation and do not include compensation contingent on future events. Guarantees We have guaranteed a certain level of operating performance for The Hub joint venture through December 2015, which is achieved over time as the network operates. As of December 31, 2011, the maximum amount potentially due under this guarantee was less than $160 million. The maximum exposure to loss is expected to decline to zero during 2015. Additional information regarding our guarantee is discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no material off balance sheet arrangements (as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S K) that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the ordinary course of business we enter into transactions with related parties, primarily companies in which we have an interest accounted for under the equity method and Liberty Global, Inc., Liberty Interactive, Liberty Media and Ascent Media Corporation and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. Information regarding transactions and amounts with related parties is discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. NEW ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We adopted certain accounting and reporting standards during 2011. Information regarding our adoption of new accounting and reporting standards is discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Company considers policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition; Goodwill and Intangible Assets; Income Taxes; Content Rights; Stock based Compensation; and Equity Method Investments. For a discussion of each of the Companys critical accounting policies, including information and analysis of estimates and assumptions involved in their application, and other significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Our financial position, earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risks and can be affected by, among other things, economic conditions, interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of investments. We have established policies, procedures and internal processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. We may use derivative financial instruments to modify our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We do not use derivative financial instruments unless there is an underlying exposure. Therefore, we do not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Interest Rates We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding $4.2 billion under various public senior notes with fixed interest rates. Additionally, we have access to a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, with no amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2011. If we were to draw on the revolving credit facility, interest would be variable based on an underlying index rate. The nature and amount of our long term debt may vary as a result of market conditions and other factors. Fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. A change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense and the cash required to service such debt. Our objectives in managing exposure to interest rate changes are to limit the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we may use interest rate swaps to manage our net exposure to interest rate changes related to our outstanding indebtedness. For fixed rate debt, we may enter into variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to LIBOR, in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. For variable rate debt, we may enter into fixed interest rate swaps to effectively fix the amount of interest paid in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. There were no interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of our outstanding public senior notes was $4.6 billion. The potential change in fair value of these senior notes from an adverse 100 basis point change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $394 million as of December 31, 2011. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. Through December 31, 2011, our International Networks segment reported into the following four regions: Western Europe, CEEMEA, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. Cash is managed from our four international regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. To the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, draw downs in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. Since earnings of our international operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, we do not hedge our investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. The functional currency of substantially all of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. The financial statements of our foreign corporations are translated into U.S. dollars as part of our consolidated financial reporting. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates affect our financial position and results of operations. The majority of our foreign currency exposure is to the British pound and the Euro. We may enter into spot, forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change to hedge certain exposures associated with the cost for producing or acquiring programming abroad. These contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce volatility of earnings and cash flows. We did not hold any foreign currency derivative instruments at December 31, 2011. Market Values of Investments We had investments in entities accounted for using the equity method and highly liquid instruments such as mutual funds that are accounted for at fair value. The carrying values of investments in equity method investees were $807 million and the carrying values of investments in mutual funds totaled $711 million at December 31, 2011. Investments in mutual funds include both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities that carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our income from such investments may decrease in the future. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not materially impact the fair values of our investments in mutual funds as of December 31, 2011. 50 Table of Contents 
 
