FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20030731062956.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12.  Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
 
On July 31, 2003, Anthem, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of that press release is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
All of the information furnished in this report and the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
The press release referred to above contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; an increased level of debt; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the Trigon Healthcare, Inc. acquisition and to successfully integrate our operations; and general economic downturns. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC filings, including but not limited to, Anthem's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and Anthem's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 31, 2003
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Anthem
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ATH) today reported that second quarter 2003 net income increased to $177.3 million, or $1.25 per share, compared with net income of $106.2 million, or $1.01 per share, for the second quarter of 2002. Excluding net realized gains and losses in both periods, adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2003 increased to $1.30 per share, or 31 percent, compared with adjusted net income of $0.99 per share for the second quarter of 2002.
Indianapolis, IN  July 31, 2003 
 
Net income for the first six months of 2003 increased to $369.0 million, or $2.61 per share, compared with net income of $206.0 million, or $1.96 per share, for the first six months of 2002. Excluding net realized gains and losses in both periods and the positive impact on earnings from the resolution of a litigation matter disclosed in the first quarter of 2003, adjusted net income for the first six months of 2003 increased to $2.48 per share, or 29 percent, compared with adjusted net income of $1.92 per share for the first six months of 2002.
 
"Anthem's record results in the second quarter of 2003 were driven by strong performance in each of our operating segments. Execution of our growth strategy continues to result in better health outcomes for our members, operational excellence, and improved financial performance," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Anthem, Inc. "Our focus on customer satisfaction has resulted in strong membership growth and retention. In addition, disciplined focus on underwriting gives us further confidence in our ability to deliver higher earnings growth than previously expected."
 
 
 
Medical enrollment exceeded 11.7 million members at June 30, 2003, representing a 41 percent increase compared with June 30, 2002. Excluding the July 31, 2002 acquisition of Trigon, membership increased 10 percent compared with June 30, 2002. In addition, enrollment increased by 688,000 members, or 6 percent, since December 31, 2002. Growth in the National Accounts business was the primary driver of membership gains in each of our regions.
Membership:
 
Operating revenue increased to $4.1 billion compared with $2.8 billion in the second quarter of 2002. Excluding the impact of the Trigon acquisition, operating revenue grew by 10 percent, compared with the second quarter of 2002. The growth was primarily attributable to disciplined pricing and solid membership gains.
Operating Revenue:
 
Operating margin reached a record 6.6 percent in the second quarter, as operating gain increased 126 percent, to $268.0 million, compared with the second quarter of 2002. Excluding results from the Trigon acquisition, operating margin reached 5.7 percent and operating gain increased 49 percent, to $176.9 million, compared with the second quarter of 2002. This improvement was primarily driven by disciplined pricing and lower than anticipated medical costs. Local Large and Small Group businesses contributed most significantly to the earnings growth.
Operating Gain:
 
Included in the reported results were $31.7 million net favorable prior year reserve developments, primarily in the Midwest and Southeast segments. These developments were nearly offset by the following unusual items in the quarter: $6.0 million for increased reserves for provider recoveries and $20.4 million for initiatives to further advance health care quality and affordability in the Virginia market, including a $10.0 million contribution to the Anthem Foundation.
 
The benefit expense ratio improved by 280 basis points, to 80.8 percent, compared with 83.6 percent in the second quarter of 2002. The improvement was primarily due to lower than anticipated medical costs and disciplined pricing. Included in the improved ratio was 80 basis points associated with the $31.7 million in net favorable prior year reserve developments.
Benefit Expense:
 
Commercial premium yields increased by approximately 12 percent, while commercial medical costs increased by approximately 11 percent during the 12-month period ended June 30, 2003. Professional services and outpatient costs continue to be the primary drivers to the overall medical cost trends.
Premium and Cost Trends:
 
The administrative expense ratio improved 10 basis points in the second quarter to 19.1 percent, compared with 19.2 percent in the second quarter of 2002. The improvement was driven primarily by optimizing administrative expenses over a larger membership base. Partially offsetting this improvement was higher incentive compensation associated with above targeted results and a contribution to the Anthem Foundation.
Administrative Expense:
 
A net realized investment loss of $9.4 million was reported during the quarter. This net loss was comprised of a $13.9 million gain from the sale of investments, offset by a $23.3 million loss on impaired equity securities.
Realized Gains and Losses on Investments:
 
Operating cash flow of $145.2 million for the second quarter of 2003 was net of a $40 million contribution to Anthem's employee pension plan and various other timing related items. Historically, pension contributions had been made in the third quarter of each year.
Operating Cash Flow:
 
Days in claims payable declined 0.3 days, to 56.4 days as of June 30, 2003, compared with March 31, 2003.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
During the quarter, 236,400 shares were repurchased for $16.8 million at an average price of $71.10 per share.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating gain for the regional health segments improved 134 percent compared with the second quarter of 2002. The significant improvement in each region was primarily driven by disciplined pricing and lower than anticipated medical costs. Included in the results for the Midwest was a $12.5 million net favorable prior year reserve development, partially offset by a $6.0 million increase in reserves for provider recoveries. Included in the results for the Southeast was a $15.8 million net favorable prior year reserve development, offset by $20.4 million for initiatives to further advance health care quality and affordability in the Virginia market, including a $10.0 million contribution to the Anthem Foundation.
Regional Health Segments:
 
Operating gain increased 25 percent compared with the second quarter of 2002, primarily due to increased mail order prescription volume and margin expansion from increased generic drug penetration at Anthem Prescription Management. Start-up and integration expenses associated with the behavioral health, vision and dental operations continued to negatively impact margins.
Specialty:
 
Operating loss was higher in the second quarter of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002, primarily due to higher incentive compensation expenses associated with above targeted results.
Other:
 
Anthem's Basis of Presentation
 
1. All income per share amounts are on a diluted basis.
 
2. Operating revenue is defined as premiums plus administrative fees and other revenue.
 
3. Operating gain is defined as operating revenue less benefit expense and administrative expense. Net investment income, net realized gains and losses, interest expense, amortization of intangible assets, income tax expense, and minority interest are not included.
 
4. On July 31, 2002 Anthem acquired Trigon Healthcare, Inc., creating a new Southeast segment. Results of operations since the purchase date have been included in consolidated results.
 
5. Historical financial results and membership for the Southeast segment have been reclassified into a reporting format consistent with Anthem's presentation format and can be found at www.anthem.com under Investor Relations.
 
 
About Anthem
 
Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana-domiciled publicly traded company that, through its subsidiary companies, provides health care benefits to more than 11.7 million people. Anthem is the fifth largest publicly traded health benefits company in the United States and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. Anthem is the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Colorado, Nevada, Maine and Virginia, excluding the immediate suburbs of Washington, D.C. Anthem had assets of $12.9 billion as of June 30, 2003 and full year 2002 revenue of $13.3 billion. More information about Anthem is available at www.anthem.com.
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
The Company will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to review these results and its earnings outlook. The live audio webcast can be accessed at Anthem's web site, www.anthem.com under Investor Relations. Please visit the website at least 15 minutes in advance.
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The following is a reconciliation of the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, to certain non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company. The non-GAAP financial measures are entitled "adjusted net income" and "adjusted net income per share". The Company's management believes that excluding events and items not resulting from business operations, such as realized gains or losses, provides a more accurate accounting of underlying earnings trends from operations.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem"), that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; an increased level of debt; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in our acquisition of Trigon Healthcare, Inc. and to successfully integrate our operations; and general economic downturns. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC filings, including but not limited to Anthem's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and Anthem's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Negative amounts reported for incurred related to prior years result from claims being settled for amounts less than originally estimated. The redundancy of $181.6 million shown in the above table represents an estimate based on paid claim activity from January 1, 2003 to June 30, 2003, and is subject to change based on future paid claim activity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


