FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20030430080509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD.
 
On April 30, 2003, Anthem, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2003. A copy of that press release is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 12.    Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
 
The information under this caption is furnished by the Company under Item 9 in place of Item 12 of Form 8-K in accordance with interim guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release No. 33-8216 issued March 27, 2003.
 
 
 
All of the information furnished in this report and the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
The press release referred to above contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; an increased level of debt; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the Trigon Healthcare, Inc. acquisition and to successfully integrate our operations; and general economic downturns. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You are also urged to
 
 
carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC filings, including but not limited to, Anthem's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:   April 30, 2003
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ATH) today reported net income for the first quarter of 2003 increased to $191.7 million, or $1.36 per share, compared with net income of $99.8 million, or $0.95 per share, for the first quarter of 2002. Excluding net realized gains in both periods and the positive impact on earnings from the previously disclosed resolution of a litigation matter, adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2003 increased to $1.18 per share, or 27 percent, compared with adjusted net income of $0.93 per share for the first quarter of 2002.
Indianapolis, IN  April 30, 2003 
 
"Our Company demonstrated many achievements during the first quarter of 2003, as membership gains, operating revenue, operating margin, and earnings per share all reached record levels," said Larry C. Glasscock, president and chief executive officer of Anthem, Inc.
 
"Results such as these are directly attributable to our ability to deliver outstanding value to our customers. We intend to continually improve upon our products to better meet the needs of our customers and to sustain our already strong focus on providing distinctive customer service," added Glasscock.
 
 
 
 
 
 
million, or 58 percent over the first quarter of 2002. The improvement was driven by enrollment growth, disciplined pricing, and lower than anticipated medical costs, with Local Large and Small Group businesses contributing most significantly to the earnings improvement.
 
 
 
 
Midwest Segment Highlights
 
The Midwest segment is comprised of health benefit and related business for members in Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio.
 
 
 
 
businesses. Since December 31, 2002, enrollment grew by 5 percent, or 264,000 members, driven by membership gains in National Accounts and Individual businesses.
 
East Segment Highlights
 
The East segment is comprised of health benefit and related business for members in Connecticut, New Hampshire and Maine.
 
 
 
 
West Segment Highlights
 
The West segment is comprised of health benefit and related business for members in Colorado and Nevada.
 
 
 
 
Southeast Segment Highlights
 
On July 31, 2002 Anthem acquired Trigon Healthcare, Inc., establishing a new Southeast geographic segment. The results of operations since its purchase are included in consolidated results. The Southeast
 
 
segment is comprised of health benefit and related business for members in Virginia, excluding the immediate suburbs of Washington, D.C.
 
 
 
 
Specialty Segment Highlights
 
The Specialty segment includes pharmacy benefit management, group life, dental, behavioral health, and vision operations of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
Other Segment Highlights
 
The Other segment includes AdminaStar Federal, a subsidiary that administers Medicare programs, inter-segment revenue and expense eliminations, and corporate expenses not allocated to operating segments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem's Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In this news release, the Company used non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures entitled "adjusted net income" and "adjusted net income per share". The Company's management believes that excluding events and items not resulting from our business operations, such as realized gains or losses on investments, provides a more accurate accounting of underlying earnings trends from operations. Included below are reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
About Anthem
 
Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana-domiciled publicly traded company that, through its subsidiary companies, provides health care benefits to more than 11.5 million people. Anthem is the fifth largest publicly traded health benefits company in the United States and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. Anthem is the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Colorado, Nevada, Maine and Virginia, excluding the immediate suburbs of Washington, D.C. As of March 31, 2003, Anthem had assets of $12.5 billion and full year 2002 revenue of $13.3 billion. More information about Anthem is available at www.anthem.com.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
The investment community and general public are invited to participate in a conference call and live webcast that will be held on Wednesday, April 30, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). The conference call can be accessed at Anthem's web site, www.anthem.com under Investor Relations. Please visit the website at least 15 minutes in advance.
 
Safe Harbor Statement Under the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem"), that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties,
 
 
many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; an increased level of debt; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in our acquisition of Trigon Healthcare, Inc. and to successfully integrate our operations; and general economic downturns. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC filings, including but not limited to Anthem's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


