FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20040428061229.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
 
On April 28, 2004, Anthem, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of that press release is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
All of the information furnished in this report and the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
The press release referred to above contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 28, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ATH) today announced first quarter 2004 net income increased to $295.6 million, or $2.08 per share, compared with net income of $191.7 million, or $1.36 per share, for the first quarter of 2003. Net income in the current quarter included $0.32 per share in tax benefits associated with a change in Indiana laws governing the state's high-risk health insurance pool and $0.15 per share in net realized gains. The first quarter of 2003 included an $0.11 per share benefit from the resolution of a litigation matter and $0.07 per share in net realized gains.
Indianapolis, IN  April 28, 2004 
 
"Our continued growth in new membership and strong retention of existing members demonstrates that employers and consumers purchasing health benefits find value in Anthem's products, recognize the strength of our industry leading brand, and appreciate our consistent focus on providing distinctive customer service," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Anthem, Inc. "Record levels of revenue and discipline in managing administrative expenses over a larger membership base contributed to our strong results in the quarter. We remain confident in our ability to continue this momentum, and look forward to the additional opportunities that our pending merger with WellPoint Health Networks will bring."
 
 
Medical enrollment exceeded 12.5 million members at March 31, 2004, increasing by 983,000 members, or 9 percent, since March 31, 2003. Membership gains in National Accounts and Individual businesses were the primary drivers of growth, with each region making a significant contribution. Enrollment in self-funded health care products increased to 56 percent of total membership at March 31, 2004 compared with 53 percent at March 31, 2003.
Membership:
 
Operating revenue increased by 11%, to $4.5 billion, compared with $4.0 billion in the first quarter of 2003. The growth was primarily attributable to disciplined pricing and solid membership gains, partially offset by a shift in business mix towards more self-funded health care products.
Operating Revenue:
 
The benefit expense ratio improved by 10 basis points, to 82.1 percent, compared with 82.2 percent in the first quarter of 2003. The first quarter of 2003 included a 60 basis point benefit from the resolution of a litigation matter.
Benefit Expense:
Commercial premium yields and medical costs both increased by approximately 9.5 percent for the twelve month period ended March 31, 2004. Professional and outpatient services continued to be the primary drivers of the overall increase in medical costs.
Premium and Cost Trends:
 
The administrative expense ratio improved by 40 basis points to 17.4 percent, compared with 17.8 percent in the first quarter of 2003. The decline was primarily driven by lower incentive compensation expenses and disciplined management of administrative expenses over a larger membership base. The shift in business mix towards more self-funded health care products added approximately 40 basis points to the first quarter 2004 administrative expense ratio.
Administrative Expense:
 
Operating cash flow in the first quarter of 2004 increased 23 percent, to $307.5 million, compared with the first quarter of 2003.
Operating Cash Flow:
 
Days in claims payable decreased 3.5 days, to 50.9 days as of March 31, 2004, compared with 54.4 days as of December 31, 2003. The decline was primarily driven by further reduction in the time between service and claim payment.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
 
 
Each of the regional health segments reported increases in operating revenue and operating gain, which is the measure used by management to evaluate performance of the operating segments. Operating gain for the regional health segments improved 20 percent compared with the first quarter of 2003 as a result of disciplined pricing, membership growth, and effective management of administrative expenses over a larger membership base.
Regional Health Segments:
 
In the first quarter of 2004, the Southeast region benefited from approximately $10 million for various unusual items that individually had minimal impact on the results. In the first quarter of 2003, the Midwest region included a $24.5 million benefit from the resolution of a litigation matter.
 
Operating gain increased 33 percent compared with the first quarter of 2003, primarily driven by a 60 percent increase in mail-order prescription volume. The improvement was partially offset by integration expenses, as well as additional investments to enhance customer service. Anthem Prescription Management migrated 1.6 million Southeast members from an outsourced vendor on January 1, 2004.
Specialty:
 
Operating loss was lower in the first quarter of 2004 compared with the same period in 2003, primarily due to lower incentive compensation expenses.
Other:
 
 
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Anthem will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time to discuss the first quarter earnings results and 2004 outlook. The conference call can be accessed by dialing 888-423-3268 (International 612-332-0630). No access-code is required. The webcast can be accessed at Anthem's web site, www.anthem.com, under Investor Relations. Please visit the website or dial in at least 15 minutes in advance. A replay of the call will be available after 1:45 p.m. today until the end of the day on May 12, 2004 by dialing 800-475-6701 (International 320-365-3844), access-code 691036.
 
 
About Anthem
 
Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana-domiciled publicly traded company that, through its subsidiary companies, provides health care benefits to more than 12.5 million people. Anthem is the fourth largest publicly traded health benefits company in the United States and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. Anthem is the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Colorado, Nevada, Maine and Virginia, excluding the northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C. Anthem had assets of $13.9 billion as of March 31, 2004 and full year 2003 revenue of almost $16.8 billion. More information about Anthem is available at www.anthem.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
 
This press release may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the proposed merger of Anthem and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WellPoint"). Anthem has filed on November 26, 2003 a preliminary registration statement on Form S-4, including the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus constituting a part thereof, with the SEC in connection with Anthem's proposed merger with WellPoint. Anthem will file a final registration statement, including a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus constituting a part thereof, and other documents with the SEC.
SHAREHOLDERS OF ANTHEM AND STOCKHOLDERS OF WELLPOINT ARE ENCOURAGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, INCLUDING THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS THAT WILL BE PART OF THE REGISTRATION
 
STATEMENT, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER
. The final joint proxy statement prospectus will be mailed to shareholders of Anthem and stockholders of WellPoint. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain the documents free of charge at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov, from Anthem Investor Relations at 120 Monument Circle, Indianapolis, IN 46204-4903, or from WellPoint Investor Relations at 1 WellPoint Way, Thousand Oaks, CA 91362.
 
PARTICIPANTS IN SOLICITATION
 
Anthem, WellPoint and their directors and executive officers and other members of their management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Anthem's Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the SEC on October 27, 2003, contains information regarding Anthem's participants and their interests in the solicitation. Information concerning WellPoint's participants is set forth in the proxy statement, dated March 31, 2003, for WellPoint's 2003 annual meeting of stockholders as filed with the SEC on Schedule 14A. Additional information regarding the interests of Anthem's and WellPoint's participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction will be included in the registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus to be filed with the SEC.
 


