FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20041206161539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On November 30, 2004, WellPoint, Inc., (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K (the "Form 8-K") to report the completion of the merger (the "Merger") of WellPoint Health Networks Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WellPoint Health"), with and into Anthem Holding Corp., an Indiana corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Anthem, Inc. (now named WellPoint, Inc.), an Indiana corporation ("Anthem"), as contemplated by the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of October 26, 2003, among Anthem, Anthem Holding Corp. and WellPoint Health.
 
This Form 8-K/A is being filed to provide certain additional information under Item 2.03 to the information originally included under such Item in the Form 8-K and to provide the financial information described under Item 9.01 below.
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
As a result of the Merger, all the rights and obligations of WellPoint Health were assumed by and automatically vested in Anthem Holding Corp. as the surviving entity of the Merger.  For more information regarding such rights and obligations, we refer you to WellPoint Health's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
In response to part (b) of Item 9.01 of the Form 8-K, the Company stated that it would file the required financial information by amendment, as permitted by Instruction (a)(4) and (b)(2) to Item 9.01. The information provided pursuant to this Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K/A is being filed to provide the required financial information.
 
The following financial statements were filed as part of WellPoint Health's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 (File No. 001-13083) and are incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited financial statements were filed as part of WellPoint Health's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 001-13083) and are incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited financial statement was filed as part of WellPoint Health's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 (File No. 001-13083) and is incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
 
(b) financial information.
Pro forma
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements were filed as part of Anthem's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-110830) and are incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements are filed as part of this Form 8-K/A:
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 6, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information presented below gives effect to the merger of Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") (now named WellPoint, Inc. or "WellPoint" following the merger) and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WHN") and the issuance of the portion of the notes that WellPoint will issue to repay all of the outstanding borrowing under the bridge loan agreement and a portion of the outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facilities, in each case that were incurred to pay the cash merger consideration associated with the merger, as if the merger had occurred and the notes had been issued on September 30, 2004 for purposes of the unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet, and as of January 1, 2003 for purposes of the unaudited pro forma combined statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2003. The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet and statements of income include the historical amounts of Anthem and WHN, adjusted to reclassify WHN's historical information to a presentation format consistent with Anthem and to reflect the impact of Anthem's merger with WHN.
 
Under terms of the merger agreement, WHN's stockholders received $23.80 in cash, without interest, and one share of WellPoint common stock for each share of WHN common stock outstanding (other than shares owned by WHN subsidiaries or shares with respect to which the holders perfect appraisal rights). The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements assume that WellPoint issued 158.9 million shares in the merger based on 158.4 million WHN shares outstanding at September 30, 2004 (including shares owned by WHN subsidiaries), with a fair value of $11,552.0 million. Fair value was based on $72.70 per share, which represents the average closing price of Anthem common stock for the five trading days ranging from two days before to two days after October 27, 2003, the date the merger was announced. The pro forma information assumes WellPoint will finance the remaining $4,019.9 million of consideration (including transaction costs), by incurring $2,800.0 million of long-term debt (including the issuance of the portion of the notes to be issued by WellPoint described above) and using $1,219.9 million of cash on hand.
 
WellPoint will account for the merger using the purchase method of accounting. As such, WellPoint will record the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities of WHN at their estimated fair value. The difference between the purchase price and the estimated fair value of WHN's net assets and liabilities will result in goodwill.
 
The pro forma information, while helpful in illustrating the financial characteristics of the combined companies under one set of assumptions, should not be relied upon as being indicative of the results that would actually have been obtained if the merger had been in effect for the periods described below or of the future results of the combined company.
 
The pro forma information should be read in conjunction with the historical selected consolidated financial and other data and the historical consolidated financial statements of Anthem and WHN, which have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as more fully described in the Form 8-K filed by WellPoint on November 30, 2004, and such financial statements and other data are incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


