FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20040902101424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") has entered into a Second Extension Agreement dated as of August 30, 2004 (the "Second Extension Agreement"), to the Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 2003 (the "Credit Agreement"), among Anthem, the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agents, and Fleet National Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Documentation Agents. The Lenders that are party to the Second Extension Agreement, and therefore the Credit Agreement, are: JPMorgan Chase Bank, Bank of America, N.A, The Bank of New York, Branch Banking and Trust Company of Virginia, Citicorp USA, Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston, acting through its Cayman Islands Branch, Deutsche Bank, AG New York Branch, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., New York Branch, Fifth Third Bank (Central Indiana), The Huntington National Bank, Morgan Stanley Bank, National City Bank of Indiana, PNC Bank, N.A., SunTrust Bank, UBS AG, Cayman Islands Branch, Union Planters Bank, N.A., Wachovia Bank, National Association, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and William Street Commitment Corporation.
 
The Second Extension Agreement extends the maturity date of the revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement (pursuant to which Anthem may borrow up to $600.0 million) to June 28, 2005. Any amounts outstanding under this facility at June 28, 2005 (except amounts that bear interest rates determined by a competitive bidding process) convert to a term loan at Anthem's option, which expires on June 28, 2006. Anthem previously had entered into an Extension Agreement dated as of June 28, 2004 (the "First Extension Agreement") to the Credit Agreement with the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agents, and Fleet National Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Documentation Agents, pursuant to which the revolving credit facility was extended to August 31, 2004. Anthem's ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement is subject to compliance with certain covenants. As of the date hereof, there are no borrowings under the Credit Agreement.
 
Reference is made to the First Extension Agreement and the Second Extension Agreement filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K for the detailed terms thereof. Reference is also made to the Credit Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 4.12(i) to Anthem's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, for the detailed terms thereof.
 
The Agents and Lenders under the Credit Agreement and their affiliates have from time to time provided, and may continue to provide in the future, various investment banking, other commercial banking and/or financial advisory services to Anthem for which they have received, and will in the future receive, customary fees. An affiliate of one of the Syndication Agents and Lenders, Bank of America, N.A., was the underwriter in the sale by Anthem of $200 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% notes due 2007 (the "Notes"), and was also the owner of $190 million aggregate principal amount of Anthem's 4.655% subordinated debentures that Anthem received as part of the proceeds from the offering of the Notes. Another of the Lenders, The Bank of New York, is the trustee under indentures pursuant to which (i) Anthem has issued the Notes, (ii) Anthem issued $230 million of debentures as part of Anthem's 6.00% equity security units, and (iii) Anthem has issued $950 million of other notes. The Bank of New York is also the purchase contract agent for Anthem's 6.00% equity security units. In addition, JPMorgan Chase Bank, the Administrative Agent and a Lender under the Credit Agreement, is the collateral agent, custodial agent and securities intermediary for Anthem's 6.00% equity security units. JPMorgan Chase Bank also is the issuing and paying agent, and one of its affiliates, along with an affiliate of Bank of America, N.A., are dealers, under Anthem's commercial paper program. Finally, the following Agents and Lenders, or their affiliates, are participants in the bridge loan and the expanded senior credit facilities which Anthem will enter into in connection with its pending merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc.: Bank of America, N.A., The Bank of New York, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., Citicorp USA, Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, SunTrust Bank, UBS AG and Wachovia Bank, National Association.
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 8Other Events
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On September 1, 2004, Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WellPoint") issued a press release to announce that California Superior Court Judge Dzintra Janavs has set February 25, 2005 as the trial date for Anthem's petition for writ of mandate to overturn the California Insurance Commissioner's denial of Anthem's application filed in connection with the proposed merger of Anthem and WellPoint. The press release also announced that Judge Janavs confirmed that the hearing on the Commissioner's demurrer will take place on October 5, 2004. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 2, 2004
 

EXHIBIT 4.12(ii)
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
EXTENSION AGREEMENT dated as of June 28, 2004 (this ""), to the Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 2003 (the ""), among ANTHEM, INC., an Indiana corporation (the ""); the LENDERS party thereto; JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent; BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Syndication Agents; and FLEET NATIONAL BANK and WILLIAM STREET COMMITMENT CORPORATION, as Documentation Agents.
Extension Agreement
Credit Agreement
Company
 
A. Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have extended and agreed to extend credit to the Company from time to time during the Availability Period, which period shall end on a date no later than the day immediately preceding the Termination Date.
 
B. In connection with the pending merger of the Company and WellPoint Health Networks Inc., the Company requested to amend the Credit Agreement to extend the Termination Date, and the Availability Period under the Credit Agreement, to August 31, 2004.
 
C. The Lenders whose signatures appear below are willing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, to extend the Termination Date, and the Availability Period during which the Company may draw their respective Commitments, as requested by the Company.
 
D. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
Accordingly, in consideration of the mutual agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1. . For purposes of this Extension Agreement, the term "" means (a) if each of the Lenders is a party hereto, 5:00 p.m. New York City time, on the Extension Agreement Effectiveness Date (as defined below) or (b) if the Lenders constituting the Required Lenders (but less than all the Lenders) are party hereto, 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 28, 2004, that, in the case of this clause (b), the Company shall have paid in full to each of the Lenders not a party hereto (each, a "") the principal of and interest accrued on each Loan made by it and all other amounts owing to it or accrued for its account under the Credit Agreement.
Definitions
Amendment Effectiveness Time
provided
Non-Extending Lender
 
SECTION 2. . At the Amendment Effectiveness Time:
Amendment
 
(a) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement shall be amended by amending and restating the definition of the term "Termination Date" in its entirety as follows:
 
""" means August 31, 2004."; and
Termination Date
 
(b) the Commitment of each Non-Extending Lender, if any, shall automatically terminate and each such Lender shall be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement and shall cease to be a party thereto, but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 and 8.03 of the Credit Agreement as in effect immediately prior to the Amendment Effectiveness Time.
 
SECTION 3. To induce the other parties hereto to enter into this Extension Agreement, the Company represents and warrants to each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that (a) this Extension Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against it in accordance with its terms and (b) after giving effect to this Extension Agreement, (i) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties are true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date); and (ii) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Representations and Warranties.
SECTION 4. . This Extension Agreement shall become effective as of the date set forth above on the date (such date, the "") that the Administrative Agent or its counsel shall have received counterparts of this Extension Agreement that, when taken together, bear the signatures of the Company, the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders party hereto, that such Lenders constitute the Required Lenders.
Effectiveness of this Extension Agreement
Extension Agreement Effectiveness Date
provided
 
SECTION 5. . Except as expressly set forth herein, this Extension Agreement shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders or the Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement, which is ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect. Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle the Borrower to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement in similar or different circumstances. This Extension Agreement shall apply and be effective only with respect to the provisions of the Credit Agreement specifically referred to herein.
Effect of this Extension Agreement
 
SECTION 6. This Extension Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts,
Counterparts.
 
each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Extension Agreement by facsimile transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
 
SECTION 7. THIS EXTENSION AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law.
 
SECTION 8. The headings of this Extension Agreement are for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension Agreement to be duly executed by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date and year first above written.
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.12(iii)
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
SECOND EXTENSION AGREEMENT dated as of August 30, 2004 (this ""), to the Amended and Restated 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 2003 (the ""), among ANTHEM, INC., an Indiana corporation (the ""); the LENDERS party thereto; JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Administrative Agent; BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Syndication Agents; and FLEET NATIONAL BANK and WILLIAM STREET COMMITMENT CORPORATION, as Documentation Agents.
Second Extension Agreement
Credit Agreement
Company
 
A. Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have extended and agreed to extend credit to the Company from time to time during the Availability Period.
 
B. The Company has requested the Lenders to amend the Credit Agreement to extend the Termination Date to June 28, 2005.
 
C. The Lenders whose signatures appear below, which include the Required Lenders, are willing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, to extend the Termination Date as requested by the Company.
 
D. The parties whose signatures appear below as Lenders but who were not previously parties to the Credit Agreement (the "") are willing to become parties to the Credit Agreement as Lenders.
New Lenders
 
E. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein (including in the foregoing recitals) have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
Accordingly, in consideration of the mutual agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1. . For purposes of this Second Extension Agreement, the term "" means (a) if each of the Lenders is a party hereto, 5:00 p.m. New York City time, on the Second Extension Agreement Effectiveness Date (as defined below) or (b) if the Lenders constituting the Required Lenders (but less than all the Lenders) are party hereto, 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on August 30, 2004, that, in the case of this clause (b), the Company shall have paid in full to each of the Lenders not a party hereto (each, a "") the principal of and interest accrued on each Loan made by it and all other amounts owing to it or accrued for its account under the Credit Agreement.
Definitions
Amendment Effectiveness Time
provided
Non-Extending Lender
 
SECTION 2. . At the Amendment Effectiveness Time:
Amendment
 
(a) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement shall be amended by amending and restating the definition of the term "Termination Date" in its entirety to read as follows:
 
""" means June 28, 2005.";
Termination Date
(b) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement shall be amended by amending and restating the definition of the term "Maturity Date" in its entirety to read as follows:
 
""" means the Termination Date, unless the Maturity Date is extended pursuant to Section 2.07(d), in which case the Maturity Date shall mean June 28, 2006.";
Maturity Date
 
(c) the Commitment of each Non-Extending Lender, if any, shall automatically terminate and each such Lender shall be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement and shall cease to be a party thereto, but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 and 8.03 of the Credit Agreement as in effect immediately prior to the Amendment Effectiveness Time;
 
(d) each New Lender shall become a Lender under the Credit Agreement;
 
(e) Schedule 2.01 of the Credit Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety in the form of Exhibit A hereto;
 
(f) Section 2.07(d) of the Credit Agreement shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"(d) The Borrower may, at any time not earlier than the 30th Business Day prior to the Termination Date and not later than the 15th Business Day prior to the Termination Date, deliver to the Administrative Agent written notice requesting an extension of the Maturity Date, in which event the Commitments shall terminate on the Termination Date and, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the Termination Date, the Maturity Date for Revolving Loans outstanding on the Termination Date shall be extended to June 28, 2006. Loans repaid or prepaid after the Termination Date may not be reborrowed.";
 
(g) Section 3.05 shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"SECTION 3.05. . The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders (a) the December 31, 2003, audited consolidated financial statements of AI and its subsidiaries, (b) the June 30, 2004, unaudited consolidated financial statements of AI and its subsidiaries, (c) the December 31, 2003, Annual Statement of AICI and (d) the June 30, 2004, Quarterly Statement of AICI (collectively, the ""). Each of the Financial Statements was prepared in accordance with GAAP or SAP, as applicable, and such Financial Statements fairly present the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries at such dates and the consolidated results of their operations for the respective periods then ended (except, in the case of such unaudited statements, for normal year-end audit adjustments)."; and (h) Section 3.06 shall be amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
 
"SECTION 3.06. . No material adverse change in the business, Property, condition (financial or otherwise) or operations of AI, or of AI and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, has occurred since December 31, 2003."
Material Adverse Change
 
SECTION 3. To induce the other parties hereto to enter into this Second Extension Agreement, the Company represents and warrants to each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that (a) this Second Extension Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against it in accordance with its terms and (b) after giving effect to this Second Extension Agreement, (i) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties are true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date); and (ii) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Representations and Warranties.
 
SECTION 4. . This Second Extension Agreement shall become effective as of the date set forth above on the date (such date, the "") that the Administrative Agent or its counsel shall have received counterparts of this Second Extension Agreement that, when taken together, bear the signatures of the Company, the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders party hereto (including Lenders constituting the Required Lenders) and that the Borrower shall have furnished the following to the Administrative Agent:
Effectiveness of this Second Extension Agreement
Second Extension Agreement Effectiveness Date
provided
 
(a) . Copies, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, of its articles of incorporation, its by-laws and of its Board of Directors' resolutions authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Second Extension Agreement and of the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and Resolutions
 
(b) . An incumbency certificate, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, which shall identify by name and title and bear the signature of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Second Extension Agreement, upon which certificate the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely until informed in writing of any change by the Borrower.
Secretary's Certificate
 
(c) . A certificate, dated the date of this Agreement, signed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, to the effect that (i) on such date (both before and after giving effect to the consummation of the Transactions that have been completed on or prior to such date and the making of any Loans hereunder) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (ii) each of the representations and warranties set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement is true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date.
Officer's Certificate
(d) . A written opinion addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders of David R. Frick, Esq., Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Administrative Officer of AI, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto.
Legal Opinion
 
(e) . No Loans shall be outstanding under the Credit Agreement on the Second Extension Agreement Effectiveness Date. The Administrative Agent shall have received all facility fees, utilization fees and interest accrued and unpaid prior to the Second Extension Agreement Effective Date under the Credit Agreement.
No Amounts Outstanding
 
(f) . The Borrower shall have paid all accrued and unpaid fees, costs, expenses and other amounts to the extent due and payable under this Second Extension Agreement or the Credit Agreement on or prior to the execution of this Agreement, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower under the Credit Agreement. The Borrower shall also have paid all fees, costs, expenses and other amounts due and payable to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank under the Commitment Letter agreement dated as of August 27, 2004 among the Borrower, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Payment of Fees
 
(g) Such other documents as the Administrative Agent, any Lender or their counsel may have reasonably requested.
Other.
 
SECTION 5. . Except as expressly set forth herein, this Second Extension Agreement shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders or the Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement, which is ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect. Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle the Borrower to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement in similar or different circumstances. This Second Extension Agreement shall apply and be effective only with respect to the provisions of the Credit Agreement specifically referred to herein.
Effect of this Second Extension Agreement
 
SECTION 6. This Second Extension Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Second Extension Agreement by facsimile transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 7. THIS SECOND EXTENSION AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law.
 
SECTION 8. The headings of this Second Extension Agreement are for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Extension Agreement to be duly executed by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
1. The execution, delivery and consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Second Extension Agreement by the Company will not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, constitute a default under or result in the imposition or creation of any Lien under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument known to me to which the Company or any of the Subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries is subject, the effect of which, individually or in the aggregate, would be either to adversely affect the validity or performance of the Credit Agreement or to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
2. The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the State of Indiana. The Company has not yet been required to file any report with the Indiana Secretary of State, and no notice of withdrawal, dissolution or expiration has been filed with or by the Indiana Secretary of State. The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Second Extension Agreement and to perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement, as amended by the Second Extension Agreement, and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.
 
3. The Second Extension Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. If, notwithstanding the choice of the laws of the State of New York to govern the Credit Agreement, it is deemed to be governed by the laws of the State of Indiana, the Credit Agreement, as amended by the Second Extension Agreement, is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms subject to the effects of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights and to general equitable principles (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and the unenforceability under certain circumstances of provisions imposing penalties, liquidated damages or similar economic remedies.
 
4. The execution, delivery and consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Second Extension Agreement by the Company will not violate (i) any provision of the articles of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or (ii) any applicable United States federal or Indiana laws, statutes, rules or regulations.
 
5. To my knowledge, other than the Disclosed Matters, there are no actions, suits or proceedings before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against, or to my knowledge threatened against or affecting the Company or any of the subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate (excluding from any such aggregate any Disclosed Matters), a Material Adverse Effect, or which challenge the validity or seek to prevent, enjoin or delay the execution or delivery of the Second Extension Agreement or the performance of the Credit Agreement, as amended by the Second Extension Agreement, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby.

Exhibit 99.1
 
news release
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 September 1, 2004  At a scheduling conference held today, California Superior Court Judge Dzintra Janavs confirmed that the hearing on the California Insurance Commissioner's demurrer will take place on October 5, 2004, and Judge Janavs set February 25, 2005 as the trial date for Anthem's petition for writ of mandate. Anthem, Inc. (NYSE:ATH) filed its petition for writ of mandate on August 3, 2004 to overturn the Commissioner's denial of Anthem's application to acquire control of BC Life & Health Insurance Company, a subsidiary of WellPoint Health Networks Inc. (NYSE:WLP), in connection with the proposed merger of Anthem and WellPoint. The Commissioner's denial was issued on July 23, 2004. Both companies remain committed to completing the merger.
THOUSAND OAKS, California and INDIANAPOLIS, Indiana
 
 
 
About Anthem
 
Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana-domiciled publicly traded company that, through its subsidiary companies, provides health care benefits to more than 12.6 million people. Anthem is the fourth largest publicly traded health benefits company in the United States and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. Anthem is the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Colorado, Nevada, Maine and Virginia, excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C. Anthem had assets of $13.7 billion as of June 30, 2004 and full year 2003 revenue of almost $16.8 billion. More information about Anthem is available at www.anthem.com.
 
About WellPoint
 
WellPoint Health Networks Inc. serves the health care needs of 15.5 million medical members and 46.2 million specialty members nationwide through Blue Cross of California, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Missouri, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wisconsin, HealthLink and UNICARE. Visit WellPoint on the web at www.wellpoint.com.
Blue Cross of California, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Missouri and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wisconsin are independent licensees of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
This document contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem"), WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WellPoint") and the combined company after completion of the proposed transactions that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem and WellPoint, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem and WellPoint; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint, to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Neither Anthem nor WellPoint undertakes any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's and WellPoint's various SEC reports, including but not limited to Anthem's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, WellPoint's Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 as amended by Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A and Anthem's and WellPoint's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2004.
 


