FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20041130160533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
The Permanent Credit Facilities described under Item 2.03 below replace Anthem's existing 364-day credit facility and existing 5-year credit facility, which were each terminated upon the consummation of the merger in accordance with the terms of the Permanent Credit Facilities.
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On November 30, 2004, the merger of WellPoint Health Networks Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WellPoint Health"), with and into Anthem Holding Corp., an Indiana corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Anthem, Inc. (now named WellPoint, Inc.), an Indiana corporation ("Anthem"), as contemplated by the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of October 26, 2003 (the "Merger Agreement"), among Anthem, Anthem Holding Corp. and WellPoint Health, was consummated. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of WellPoint Health common stock was converted into the right to receive $23.80 in cash and one share of Anthem common stock. In connection with the approval of the California Department of Managed Health Care related to the merger, Anthem, Anthem Holding Corp., WellPoint Health and certain WellPoint Health subsidiaries signed the undertakings attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 to this current report on Form 8-K.
 
The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement and a press release, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 2.1 and 99.1, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
On November 30, 2004, Anthem borrowed (1) $500 million of term loans (the "Term Loans") under the Loan Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2004, among Anthem, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Loan Agreement"), (2) $900 million of revolving loans (the "364-Day Revolving Loans") under the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 19, 2004, among Anthem, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "364-Day Credit Agreement") and (3) $1.4 billion of revolving loans (the "5-Year Revolving Loans" and, together with the 364-Day Loans, the "Revolving Loans") under the 5-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 19, 2004, among Anthem, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "5-Year Credit Agreement" and, together with the 364-Day Credit Agreement, the "Permanent Credit Facilities"). The proceeds of the Term Loans and the Revolving Loans shall, in each case, be used to finance in part the merger and to pay fees and expenses in connection therewith. The obligations of Anthem under each Permanent Credit Facility and under the Loan Agreement are guaranteed by Anthem Holding Corp., which is the surviving entity in the merger. For a description of the material terms of the Loan Agreement and the Permanent Credit Facilities, including information regarding the terms of payment and conditions to the ability of Anthem to incur loans thereunder, see the Forms 8-K filed by Anthem with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2004 and November 24, 2004, respectively.
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the consummation of the merger, Leonard D. Schaeffer was appointed Chairman of WellPoint, Inc.'s board of directors, and Larry C. Glasscock continued as President and Chief Executive Officer of WellPoint, Inc. WellPoint, Inc.'s board of directors expanded to 19 directors. Mr. Glasscock, Lenox D. Baker, Jr., M.D., Susan B. Bayh, Allan B. Hubbard, Victor S. Liss, L. Ben Lytle, William G. Mays, Senator Donald W. Riegle, Jr., William J. Ryan, George A. Schaefer, Jr. and Jackie M. Ward continued as directors of the combined company. Mr. Schaeffer, Sheila P. Burke, William H.T. Bush, Julie A. Hill, Warren Y. Jobe, Ramiro G. Peru, Jane G. Pisano and Elizabeth A. Sanders were elected to WellPoint, Inc.'s board of directors, effective November 30, 2004.
 
Furthermore, effective on November 30, 2004 and on account of the merger, Michael L. Smith will resign from his position as Chief Financial and Accounting Officer and William B. Hart, James W. McDowell, Jr. and
John Sherman, Jr. will no longer serve as directors of the registrant. Additionally, effective on November 30, 2004 and on account of the merger, David C. Colby will serve as Chief Financial and Accounting Officer of the registrant. Mr. Colby, age 51, served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for WellPoint Health since September 1997.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
Upon consummation of the merger, Anthem amended its articles of incorporation to change its name to "WellPoint, Inc." and amended its bylaws.
 
The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement and a press release, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 2.1 and 99.1, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(a) Financial statements of the business acquired.
 
The following financial statements were filed as part of WellPoint Health's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 (File No. 001-13083) and are incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited financial statements were filed as part of WellPoint Health's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 001-13083) and are incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited financial statement was filed as part of WellPoint Health's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 (File No. 001-13083) and is incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
(b) financial information.
Pro forma
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements were filed as part of Anthem's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-110830) and are incorporated herein by this reference:
 
 
 
 
The remaining pro forma financial information with respect to the combined company (unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2004, unaudited pro forma combined income statement for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and notes to the aforementioned unaudited pro forma combined financial statements) will be filed under cover of Form 8-K/A as soon as practicable, and in any event not later than 71 days after the closing date of November 30, 2004.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, WellPoint, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 30, 2004
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
The undersigned incorporator, desiring to form a corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation"), pursuant to the provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation Law"), executes the following Articles of Incorporation:
 
 
The name of the Corporation is WellPoint, Inc.
 
 
. The purpose for which the Corporation is formed is to engage in the transaction of any or all lawful business for which corporations may now or hereafter be incorporated under the Corporation Law.
Section 2.1. Purposes of the Corporation
 
. The Corporation shall have (a) all powers now or hereafter authorized by or vested in corporations pursuant to the provisions of the Corporation Law, (b) all powers now or hereafter vested in corporations by common law or any other statute or act, and (c) all powers authorized by or vested in the Corporation by the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation or by the provisions of its By-Laws as from time to time in effect.
Section 2.2. Powers of the Corporation
 
 
The period during which the Corporation shall continue is perpetual.
 
 
The street address of the Corporation's registered office at the time of adoption of these Articles of Incorporation is 120 Monument Circle, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and the name of its Resident Agent at such office at the time of adoption of these Articles of Incorporation is Nancy Purcell.
 
 
. The total number of shares which the Corporation has authority to issue shall be one billion (1,000,000,000) shares, consisting of nine hundred million (900,000,000) shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), and one hundred million (100,000,000) shares of preferred stock, without par value (the "Preferred Stock").
Section 5.1. Authorized Classes and Number of Shares
 
. The Corporation shall have the power to acquire (by purchase, redemption, or otherwise), hold, own, pledge, sell, transfer, assign, reissue, cancel, or otherwise dispose of the shares of the Corporation in the manner and to the extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of
Section 5.2. General Terms of All Shares
 
Indiana (but such power shall not imply an obligation on the part of the owner or holder of any share to sell or otherwise transfer such share to the Corporation), including the power to purchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire the Corporation's own shares, directly or indirectly, and without pro rata treatment of the owners or holders of any class or series of shares, unless, after giving effect thereto, the Corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or the Corporation's total assets would be less than its total liabilities (calculated without regard to any amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the purchase, redemption, or other acquisition, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those of the holders of the shares of the Corporation being purchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired, unless otherwise expressly provided with respect to a series of Preferred Stock in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of such series). Shares of the Corporation purchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired by it shall constitute authorized but unissued shares, unless prior to any such purchase, redemption, or other acquisition, or within thirty (30) days thereafter, the Board of Directors adopts a resolution providing that such shares constitute authorized and issued but not outstanding shares.
 
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may dispose of, issue, and sell shares in accordance with, and in such amounts as may be permitted by, the laws of the State of Indiana and the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation and for such consideration, at such price or prices, at such time or times and upon such terms and conditions (including the privilege of selectively repurchasing the same) as the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall determine, without the authorization or approval by any shareholders of the Corporation. Shares may be disposed of, issued, and sold to such persons, firms, or corporations as the Board of Directors may determine, without any preemptive right on the part of the owners or holders of other shares of the Corporation of any class or kind to acquire such shares by reason of their ownership of such other shares.
 
When the Corporation receives the consideration specified in a subscription agreement entered into before incorporation, or for which the Board of Directors authorized the issuance of shares, as the case may be, the shares issued therefor shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
 
The Corporation shall have the power to declare and pay dividends or other distributions upon the issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation, subject to the limitation that a dividend or other distribution may not be made if, after giving it effect, the Corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or the Corporation's total assets would be less than its total liabilities (calculated without regard to any amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the dividend or other distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those of the holders of shares receiving the dividend or other distribution, unless otherwise expressly provided with respect to a series of Preferred Stock in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of such series). Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.4, the Corporation shall have the power to issue shares of one class or series as a share dividend or other distribution in respect of that class or series or one or more other classes or series.
 
Section 5.3. Voting Rights of Shares.
 
(a) . Except as otherwise provided by the Corporation Law and subject to such shareholder disclosure and recognition procedures (which may include voting prohibition sanctions) as the Corporation may by action of its Board of Directors establish, shares of Common Stock have unlimited voting rights. Shares of Common Stock shall, when validly issued by the Corporation, entitle the record holder thereof to one (1) vote per share on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation. Shares of Common Stock shall not have cumulative voting rights.
Common Stock
 
(b) . Except as required by the Corporation Law or by the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of the Preferred Stock or a series thereof, the holders of Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights or powers. Shares of Preferred Stock shall, when validly issued by the Corporation, entitle the record holder thereof to vote as and on
Preferred Stock
 
such matters, but only as and on such matters, as the holders thereof are entitled to vote under the Corporation Law or under the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of the Preferred Stock or a series thereof (which provisions may provide for special, conditional, limited, or unlimited voting rights, including multiple or fractional votes per share, or for no right to vote, except to the extent required by the Corporation Law) and subject to such shareholder disclosure and recognition procedures (which may include voting prohibition sanctions) as the Corporation may by action of the Board of Directors establish.
 
Section 5.4. Other Terms of Common Stock.
 
(a) Shares of Common Stock shall be equal in every respect insofar as their relationship to the Corporation is concerned, but such equality of rights shall not imply equality of treatment as to redemption or other acquisition of shares by the Corporation.
 
(b) Subject to the rights of the holders of any outstanding Preferred Stock issued under Section 5.5 hereof, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to share ratably in such dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions, or other acquisitions of shares by the Corporation), if any, as are declared and paid from time to time at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
 
(c) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, after payment shall have been made to the holders of the Preferred Stock of the full amount to which they shall be entitled under this Article V, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any and all series, to share, ratably according to the number of shares of Common Stock held by them, in all remaining assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders.
 
Section 5.5. Other Terms of Preferred Stock.
 
(a) Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have such distinctive designation and such preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights as shall be set forth in these Articles of Incorporation. Subject to the requirements of the Corporation Law and subject to all other provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors of the Corporation may create one or more series of Preferred Stock and may determine the preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights of one or more series of Preferred Stock before the issuance of any shares of that series by the adoption of an amendment to these Articles of Incorporation that specifies the terms of the series of Preferred Stock. All shares of a series of Preferred Stock must have preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights identical with those of other shares of the same series and, if the description of the series set forth in these Articles of Incorporation so provides, no series of Preferred Stock need have preferences, limitations, or relative voting or other rights identical with those of any other series of Preferred Stock.
 
Before issuing any shares of a series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors shall adopt an amendment to these Articles of Incorporation, which shall be effective without any shareholder approval or other action, that sets forth the preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights of the series, and authority is hereby expressly vested in the Board of Directors, by such amendment:
 
(1) To fix the distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares which shall constitute such series, which number may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by action of the Board of Directors;
 
(2) To fix the voting rights of such series, which may consist of special, conditional, limited, or unlimited voting rights, including multiple or fractional votes per share, or no right to vote (except to the extent required by the Corporation Law);
 
(3) To fix the dividend or distribution rights of such series and the manner of calculating the amount and time for payment of dividends or distributions, including, but not limited to:
 
(A) the dividend rate, if any, of such series;
 
(B) any limitations, restrictions, or conditions on the payment of dividends or other distributions, including whether dividends or other distributions shall be noncumulative or cumulative or partially cumulative and, if so, from which date or dates;
 
(C) the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of dividends or other distributions on shares of that series in relation to Common Stock and shares of any other series of Preferred Stock; and
 
(D) the form of dividends or other distributions, which may be payable at the option of the Corporation, the shareholder, or another person (and in such case to prescribe the terms and conditions of exercising such option), or upon the occurrence of a designated event in cash, indebtedness, stock or other securities or other property, or in any combination thereof,
 
and to make provisions, in the case of dividends or other distributions payable in stock or other securities, for adjustment of the dividend or distribution rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine;
 
(4) To fix the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions on which, the shares of such series may be redeemed or converted, which may be
 
(A) at the option of the Corporation, the shareholder, or another person or upon the occurrence of a designated event;
 
(B) for cash, indebtedness, securities, or other property or any combination thereof; and
 
(C) in a designated amount or in an amount determined in accordance with a designated formula or by reference to extrinsic data or events;
 
(5) To fix the amount or amounts payable upon the shares of such series in the event of any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment upon shares of such series in relation to Common Stock and shares of any other series of Preferred Stock; and to determine whether or not any such preferential rights upon dissolution need be considered in determining whether or not the Corporation may make dividends, repurchases, or other distributions;
 
(6) To determine whether or not the shares of such series shall be entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such series and, if so entitled, the amount of such fund and the manner of its application;
 
(7) To determine whether or not the issue of any additional shares of such series or of any other series in addition to such series shall be subject to restrictions in addition to restrictions, if any, on the issue of additional shares imposed in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation fixing the terms of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock theretofore issued pursuant to this Section 5.5 and, if subject to additional restrictions, the extent of such additional restrictions; and
 
(8) Generally to fix the other preferences or rights, and any qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of such preferences or rights, of such series to the full extent permitted by the Corporation Law; provided, however, that no such preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations, or restrictions shall be in conflict with these Articles of Incorporation or any amendment hereof.
 
(b) Shares of Preferred Stock of any series that have been redeemed (whether through the operation of a sinking fund or otherwise) or purchased by the Corporation, or which, if convertible, have been converted into shares of the Corporation of any other class or series, may be reissued as a part of such series or of any other series of Preferred Stock, subject to such limitations (if any) as may be fixed by the Board of Directors with respect to such series of Preferred Stock in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 5.5.
 
 
. The number of Directors of the Corporation shall not be less than five (5) nor more than nineteen (19), the exact number to be specified from time to time in the manner set forth in the By-Laws. The Board of Directors at the time of adoption of these Articles of Incorporation is composed of thirteen (13) members. The By-Laws shall provide for staggering the terms of the members of the Board of Directors by dividing the total number of Directors into three (3) groups (with each group containing one-third (
Section 6.1. Number
 1
/
3
) of the total, as near as may be) whose terms of office expire at different times.
 
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 6.1, any amendment to the By-Laws or any resolution of the Board of Directors that would effect:
 
(a) any increase in the number of Directors over such number as then in effect,
 
(b) any reduction in the number of Directors below such number as then in effect, or
 
(c) any elimination or modification of the groups or terms of office of the Directors as the By-Laws then in effect may provide,
 
shall also be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors of the Corporation who then qualify as Continuing Directors with respect to all Related Persons (as such terms are defined for purposes of Article VIII hereof).
 
. Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation or residents of this or any other state in the United States.
Section 6.2. Qualifications
 
. Vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided in the By-Laws or, if the By-Laws do not provide for the filling of vacancies, in the manner provided by the Corporation Law. The By-Laws may also provide that in certain circumstances specified therein, vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by vote of the shareholders at a special meeting called for that purpose or at the next annual meeting of shareholders.
Section 6.3. Vacancies
 
. A Director's responsibility to the Corporation shall be limited to discharging his or her duties as a Director, including his or her duties as a member of any committee of the Board of Directors upon which he or she may serve, in good faith, with the care an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would exercise under similar circumstances, and in a manner the Director reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the Corporation, all based on the facts then known to the Director.
Section 6.4. Liability of Directors
 
In discharging his or her duties, a Director is entitled to rely on information, opinions, reports, or statements, including financial statements and other financial data, if prepared or presented by:
 
(a) One (1) or more officers or employees of the Corporation whom the Director reasonably believes to be reliable and competent in the matters presented;
 
(b) Legal counsel, public accountants, or other persons as to matters the Director reasonably believes are within such person's professional or expert competence; or
 
(c) A committee of the Board of which the Director is not a member if the Director reasonably believes the Committee merits confidence;
 
but a Director is not acting in good faith if the Director has knowledge concerning the matter in question that makes reliance otherwise permitted by this Section 6.4 unwarranted.
 
A Director shall not be liable for any action taken as a Director, or any failure to take any action, unless (a) the Director has breached or failed to perform the duties of the Director's office in compliance with this Section 6.4, and (b) the breach or failure to perform constitutes willful misconduct or recklessness.
 
. In determining whether to take or refrain from taking any action with respect to any matter, including making or declining to make any recommendation to shareholders of the Corporation, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, consider both the short term and long term best interests of the Corporation (including the possibility that these interests may be best served by the continued independence of the Corporation), taking into account, and weighing as the Directors deem appropriate, the social and economic effects thereof on the Corporation's present and future employees, suppliers and customers of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, the communities in which offices or other facilities of the Corporation are located, and any other factors the Directors consider pertinent.
Section 6.5. Factors to be Considered by Board
 
. Any or all of the members of the Board of Directors may be removed only at a meeting of the shareholders or Directors called expressly for that purpose. Removal by the shareholders requires an affirmative vote of the holders of outstanding shares representing at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-
Section 6.6. Removal of Directors
 2
/
3
%) of all the votes then entitled to be cast at an election of Directors. Removal by the Board of Directors requires an affirmative vote of both (a) a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, and (b) a majority of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII hereof). No Director may be removed except as provided in this Section 6.6.
 
. The holders of one (1) or more series of Preferred Stock may be entitled to elect all or a specified number of Directors, but only to the extent and subject to limitations as may be set forth in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of the series of Preferred Stock.
Section 6.7. Election of Directors by Holders of Preferred Stock
 
 
. Meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held at such time and at such place, either within or without the State of Indiana, as may be stated in or fixed in accordance with the By-Laws of the Corporation and specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice of any such meetings.
Section 7.1. Meetings of Shareholders
 
. Special meetings of the shareholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the Corporation Law, may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors or the officers authorized to do so by the By-Laws. Shareholders of the Corporation shall not be authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders.
Section 7.2. Special Meetings of Shareholders
 
. Unless the Indiana Business Corporation Law provides otherwise, at all meetings of shareholders, twenty-five percent (25%) of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for action on the matter. Action may be taken at a shareholders' meeting only on matters with respect to which a quorum exists; provided, however, that any meeting of shareholders, including annual and special meetings and any adjournments thereof, may be adjourned to a later date although less than a quorum is present. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting.
Section 7.3. Quorum
 
. Meetings of the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Indiana, as may be authorized by the By-Laws and specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice of any such meetings or otherwise specified by the Board of Directors. Unless the By-Laws provide otherwise, (a) regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without
Section 7.4. Meetings of Directors
 
notice of the date, time, place, or purpose of the meeting and (b) the notice for a special meeting need not describe the purpose or purposes of the special meeting.
 
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or shareholders, or of any committee of such Board, may be taken without a meeting, if the action is taken by all members of the Board or all shareholders entitled to vote on the action, or by all members of such committee, as the case may be. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by each Director, or all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action, or by each member of such committee, as the case may be, and, in the case of action by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken or, in the case of action by the shareholders, delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records. Action taken under this Section 7.5 is effective when the last Director, shareholder, or committee member, as the case may be, signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 7.5 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all members of the Board, or all shareholders, or all members of the committee, as the case may be, and may be described as such in any document.
Section 7.5. Action Without Meeting
 
. The Board of Directors shall have the exclusive power to make, alter, amend, or repeal, or to waive provisions of, the By-Laws of the Corporation by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, except as expressly provided in Section 6.1 hereof and as provided by the Corporation Law. All provisions for the regulation of the business and management of the affairs of the Corporation not stated in these Articles of Incorporation shall be stated in the By-Laws. The Board of Directors may adopt Emergency By-Laws of the Corporation and shall have the exclusive power (except as may otherwise be provided therein) to make, alter, amend, or repeal, or to waive provisions of, the Emergency By-Laws by the affirmative vote of both (a) a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time and (b) a majority of the entire number of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors with respect to all Related Persons (as such terms are defined for purposes of Article VIII hereof).
Section 7.6. By-Laws
 
Section 7.7. Interest of Directors.
 
(a) A conflict of interest transaction is a transaction with the Corporation in which a Director of the Corporation has a direct or indirect interest. A conflict of interest transaction is not voidable by the Corporation solely because of the Director's interest in the transaction if any one (1) of the following is true:
 
(1) The material facts of the transaction and the Director's interest were disclosed or known to the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors or committee authorized, approved, or ratified the transaction.
 
(2) The material facts of the transaction and the Director's interest were disclosed or known to the shareholders entitled to vote and they authorized, approved, or ratified the transaction.
 
(3) The transaction was fair to the Corporation.
 
(b) For purposes of this Section 7.7, a Director of the Corporation has an indirect interest in a transaction if:
 
(1) Another entity in which the Director has a material financial interest or in which the Director is a general partner is a party to the transaction; or
 
(2) Another entity of which the Director is a director, officer, or trustee is a party to the transaction and the transaction is, or is required to be, considered by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
(c) For purposes of Section 7.7(a)(1), a conflict of interest transaction is authorized, approved, or ratified if it receives the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors on the Board of Directors (or on the committee) who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction, but a transaction may not be authorized, approved, or
 
ratified under this section by a single Director. If a majority of the Directors who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction vote to authorize, approve, or ratify the transaction, a quorum shall be deemed present for the purpose of taking action under this Section 7.7. The presence of, or a vote cast by, a Director with a direct or indirect interest in the transaction does not affect the validity of any action taken under Section 7.7(a)(1), if the transaction is otherwise authorized, approved, or ratified as provided in such subsection.
 
(d) For purposes of Section 7.7(a)(2), a conflict of interest transaction is authorized, approved, or ratified if it receives the affirmative vote of the holders of shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast. Shares owned by or voted under the control of a Director who has a direct or indirect interest in the transaction, and shares owned by or voted under the control of an entity described in Section 7.7(b), may be counted in such a vote of shareholders.
 
. Shareholders of the Corporation are not personally liable for the acts or debts of the Corporation, nor is private property of shareholders subject to the payment of corporate debts.
Section 7.8. Nonliability of Shareholders
 
Section 7.9. Indemnification of Officers, Directors, and Other Eligible Persons.
 
(a) The Corporation shall indemnify every Eligible Person against all Liability and Expense that may be incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any Claim to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by the Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than such law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), or otherwise consistent with the public policy of the State of Indiana. In furtherance of the foregoing, and not by way of limitation, every Eligible Person shall be indemnified by the Corporation against all Liability and reasonable Expense that may be incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any Claim, (1) if such Eligible Person is Wholly Successful with respect to the Claim, or (2) if not Wholly Successful, then if such Eligible Person is determined, as provided in either Section 7.9(g) or 7.9(h), to have acted in good faith, in what he or she reasonably believed to be the best interests of the Corporation or at least not opposed to its best interests and, in addition, with respect to any criminal claim is determined to have had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was lawful or had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any Claim, by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval), or conviction or upon a plea of guilty or of nolo contendere, or its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that an Eligible Person did not meet the standards of conduct set forth in clause (2) of this subsection (a). The actions of an Eligible Person with respect to an employee benefit plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 shall be deemed to have been taken in what the Eligible Person reasonably believed to be the best interests of the Corporation or at least not opposed to its best interests if the Eligible Person reasonably believed he was acting in conformity with the requirements of such Act or he reasonably believed his actions to be in the interests of the participants in or beneficiaries of the plan.
 
(b) The term "Claim" as used in this Section 7.9 shall include every pending, threatened, or completed claim, action, suit, or proceeding and all appeals thereof (whether brought by or in the right of this Corporation or any other corporation or otherwise), civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, formal or informal, in which an Eligible Person may become involved, as a party or otherwise:
 
(1) by reason of his or her being or having been an Eligible Person, or
 
(2) by reason of any action taken or not taken by him or her in his or her capacity as an Eligible Person, whether or not he or she continued in such capacity at the time such Liability or Expense shall have been incurred.
 
(c) The term "Eligible Person" as used in this Section 7.9 shall mean every person (and the estate, heirs, and personal representatives of such person) who is or was a Director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director, officer, employee, partner, trustee, member, manager, agent, or fiduciary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust,
 
employee benefit plan, or other organization or entity, whether for profit or not. An Eligible Person shall also be considered to have been serving an employee benefit plan at the request of the Corporation if his or her duties to the Corporation also imposed duties on, or otherwise involved services by, him or her to the plan or to participants in or beneficiaries of the plan.
 
(d) The terms "Liability" and "Expense" as used in this Section 7.9 shall include, but shall not be limited to, counsel fees and disbursements and amounts of judgments, fines, or penalties against (including excise taxes assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan), and amounts paid in settlement by or on behalf of an Eligible Person.
 
(e) The term "Wholly Successful" as used in this Section 7.9 shall mean (1) termination of any Claim, whether on the merits or otherwise, against the Eligible Person in question without any finding of liability or guilt against him or her, (2) approval by a court, with knowledge of the indemnity herein provided, of a settlement of any Claim, or (3) the expiration of a reasonable period of time after the making or threatened making of any Claim without the institution of the same, without any payment or promise made to induce a settlement.
 
(f) As used in this Section 7.9, the term "Corporation" includes all constituent entities in a consolidation or merger and the new or surviving corporation of such consolidation or merger, so that any Eligible Person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or agent of such a constituent entity, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent entity as a Director, officer, employee, partner, trustee, member, manager, agent, or fiduciary of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, limited liability company or other organization or entity, whether for profit or not, shall stand in the same position under this Section 7.9 with respect to the new or surviving corporation as he or she would if he or she had served the new or surviving corporation in the same capacity.
 
(g) Every Eligible Person claiming indemnification hereunder (other than one who has been Wholly Successful with respect to any Claim) shall be entitled to indemnification (1) if special independent legal counsel, which may be regular counsel of the Corporation, or other disinterested person or persons, in either case selected by the Board of Directors, whether or not a disinterested quorum exists (such counsel or person or persons being hereinafter called the "Referee"), shall deliver to the Corporation a written finding that such Eligible Person has met the standards of conduct set forth in Section 7.9(a)(2), and (2) if the Board of Directors, acting upon such written finding, so determines. The Board of Directors shall, if an Eligible Person is found to be entitled to indemnification pursuant to the preceding sentence, also determine the reasonableness of the Eligible Person's Expenses. The Eligible Person claiming indemnification shall, if requested, appear before the Referee, answer questions that the Referee deems relevant and shall be given ample opportunity to present to the Referee evidence upon which the Eligible Person relies for indemnification. The Corporation shall, at the request of the Referee, make available facts, opinions, or other evidence in any way relevant to the Referee's findings that are within the possession or control of the Corporation.
 
(h) If an Eligible Person claiming indemnification pursuant to Section 7.9(g) is found not to be entitled thereto, or if the Board of Directors fails to select a Referee under Section 7.9(g) within a reasonable amount of time following a written request of an Eligible Person for the selection of a Referee, or if the Referee or the Board of Directors fails to make a determination under Section 7.9(g) within a reasonable amount of time following the selection of a Referee, the Eligible Person may apply for indemnification with respect to a Claim to a court of competent jurisdiction, including a court in which the Claim is pending against the Eligible Person. On receipt of an application, the court, after giving notice to the Corporation and giving the Corporation ample opportunity to present to the court any information or evidence relating to the claim for indemnification that the Corporation deems appropriate, may order indemnification if it determines that the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification with respect to the Claim because such Eligible Person met the standards of conduct set forth in Section 7.9(a)(2). If the court determines that the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification, the court shall also determine the reasonableness of the Eligible Person's Expenses.
 
(i) Expenses incurred by an Eligible Person who is a Director or officer of the Corporation in defending any Claim shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Claim promptly as they are incurred upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such Eligible Person to repay such amount if he or she is determined not to be entitled to indemnification. Expenses incurred by any other Eligible Person with respect to any Claim may be advanced by the Corporation (by action of the Board of Directors, whether or not a disinterested quorum exists) prior to the final disposition thereof upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Eligible Person to repay such amount if he or she is determined not to be entitled to indemnification.
 
(j) The rights of indemnification and advancement of Expenses provided in this Section 7.9 shall be in addition to any rights to which any Eligible Person may otherwise be entitled. Irrespective of the provisions of this Section 7.9, the Board of Directors may, at any time and from time to time, (1) approve indemnification of any Eligible Person to the full extent permitted by the provisions of applicable law at the time in effect, whether on account of past or future transactions, and (2) authorize the Corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any Eligible Person against any Liability or Expense asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such Liability or Expense.
 
(k) The provisions of this Section 7.9 shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each Eligible Person, and an Eligible Person's rights hereunder shall not be diminished or otherwise adversely affected by any repeal, amendment, or modification of this Section 7.9 that occurs subsequent to such person becoming an Eligible Person.
 
(l) The provisions of this Section 7.9 shall be applicable to Claims made or commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions to act occurring before or after the adoption hereof.
 
(m) If this Section 7.9 or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Director or officer and may indemnify each employee or agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Section 7.9 that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
 
 
. . Except as provided in Sections 8.2 and 8.3 hereof, neither the Corporation nor its Subsidiaries, if any, shall become a party to any Business Combination with a Related Person without the prior affirmative vote at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders:
Section 8.1
Supermajority Vote
 
(a) Of not less than sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-
 2
/
3
%) of all the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of Voting Stock of the Corporation considered for purposes of this Article VIII as a single class, and
 
(b) Of an Independent Majority of Shareholders.
 
Such favorable votes shall be in addition to any shareholder vote which would be required without reference to this Section 8.1 and shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that some lesser percentage may be specified by law or elsewhere in these Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation or otherwise.
 
. . The provisions of Section 8.1 of this Article VIII shall not apply to a Business Combination if all of the conditions set forth in subsections (a) through (d) are satisfied.
Section 8.2
Fair Price Exception
 
(a) The fair market value of the property, securities, or other consideration to be received per share by holders of each class or series of capital stock of the Corporation in the Business Combination is not less, as of
 
the date of the consummation of the Business Combination (the "Consummation Date"), than the higher of the following: (1) the highest per share price (with appropriate adjustments for recapitalizations and for stock splits, stock dividends, and like distributions), including brokerage commissions and solicitation fees paid by the Related Person in acquiring any of its holdings, of such class or series of capital stock within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposed Business Combination ("Announcement Date") plus interest compounded annually from the date that the Related Person became a Related Person (the "Determination Date"), or if later from a date two years before the Consummation Date, through the Consummation Date, at the rate publicly announced as the "prime rate" of interest of Citibank, N.A. (or of such other major bank headquartered in New York as may be selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors) from time to time in effect, less the aggregate amount of any cash dividends paid and the fair market value of any dividends paid in other than cash on each share of such stock from the date from which interest accrues under the preceding clause through the Consummation Date up to but not exceeding the amount of interest so payable per share; (2) the fair market value per share of such class or series on the Announcement Date as determined by the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the Announcement Date if such stock is listed on a securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to such stock during the 30-day period preceding the Announcement Date on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or any similar system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of such stock immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposed Business Combination as determined by the Continuing Directors in good faith. In the event of a Business Combination upon the consummation of which the Corporation would be the surviving corporation or company or would continue to exist (unless it is provided, contemplated, or intended that as part of such Business Combination or within one year after consummation thereof a plan of liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation will be effected), the term "other consideration to be received" shall include (without limitation) Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class of stock retained by shareholders of the Corporation other than Related Persons who are parties to such Business Combination;
OR
 
(b) The consideration to be received in such Business Combination by holders of each class or series of capital stock of the Corporation other than the Related Person involved shall, except to the extent that a shareholder agrees otherwise as to all or part of the shares which he or she owns, be in the same form and of the same kind as the consideration paid by the Related Person in acquiring the majority of the shares of capital stock of such class or series already Beneficially Owned by it;
 
(c) After such Related Person became a Related Person and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination: (1) such Related Person shall have taken steps to ensure that the Board of Directors of the Corporation included at all times representation by Continuing Directors proportionate to the ratio that the number of shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation from time to time owned by shareholders who are not Related Persons bears to all shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation outstanding at the time in question (with a Continuing Director to occupy any resulting fractional position among the Directors); (2) such Related Person shall not have acquired from the Corporation, directly or indirectly, any shares of the Corporation (except upon conversion of convertible securities acquired by it prior to becoming a Related Person or as a result of a pro rata stock dividend, stock split, or division of shares or in a transaction which satisfied all applicable requirements of this Article VIII); (3) such Related Person shall not have acquired any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Voting Stock except as a part of the transaction which resulted in such Related Person's becoming a Related Person; and (4) such Related Person shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a shareholder), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges, or other financial assistance or tax credits provided by the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or made any major change in the Corporation's business or equity capital structure or entered into any contract, arrangement, or understanding with the Corporation except any such change, contract, arrangement, or understanding as may have been approved by the favorable vote of not less than a majority of the Continuing Directors of the Corporation; and
 
(d) A proxy or information statement complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder, as then in force for
 
corporations subject to the requirements of Section 14 of such Act (even if the Corporation is not otherwise subject to Section 14 of such Act), shall have been mailed to all holders of shares of the Corporation's capital stock entitled to vote with respect to such Business Combination. Such proxy or information statement shall contain on the face page thereof, in a prominent place, any recommendations as to the advisability (or inadvisability) of the Business Combination which the Continuing Directors, or any of them, may have furnished in writing and, if deemed advisable by a majority of the Continuing Directors, a fair summary of an opinion of a reputable investment banking firm addressed to the Corporation as to the fairness (or lack of fairness) of the terms of such Business Combination from the point of view of the holders of shares of Voting Stock other than any Related Person (such investment banking firm to be selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors, to be furnished with all information it reasonably requests, and to be paid a reasonable fee for its services upon receipt by the Corporation of such opinion).
 
. . The provisions of Section 8.1 hereof shall not apply to a Business Combination if:
Section 8.3
Director Approval Exception
 
(a) The Directors, by a favorable vote of not less than two-thirds (
 2
/
3
) of the Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors, (1) have expressly approved a memorandum of understanding with the Related Person with respect to the Business Combination prior to the time that the Related Person became a Related Person and the Business Combination is effected on substantially the same terms and conditions as are provided by the memorandum of understanding, or (2) have otherwise approved the Business Combination; or
 
(b) The Business Combination is solely between the Corporation and another corporation, one hundred percent (100%) of the Voting Stock of which is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation.
 
. . For purposes of this Article VIII:
Section 8.4
Definitions
 
(a) A "Business Combination" means:
 
(1) The sale, exchange, lease, transfer, or other disposition to or with a Related Person or any Affiliate or Associate of such Related Person by the Corporation or any Subsidiaries (in a single transaction or a Series of Related Transactions) of all or substantially all, or any Substantial Part, of its or their assets or businesses (including, without limitation, securities issued by a Subsidiary, if any);
 
(2) The purchase, exchange, lease, or other acquisition by the Corporation or any Subsidiaries (in a single transaction or a Series of Related Transactions) of all or substantially all, or any Substantial Part, of the assets or business of a Related Person or any Affiliate or Associate of such Related Person;
 
(3) Any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary thereof into or with a Related Person or any Affiliate or Associate of such Related Person or into or with another Person which, after such merger or consolidation, would be an Affiliate or an Associate of a Related Person, in each case irrespective of which Person is the surviving entity in such merger or consolidation;
 
(4) Any reclassification of securities, recapitalization, or other transaction (other than a redemption in accordance with the terms of the security redeemed) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate amount of shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation or any Subsidiary thereof which are Beneficially Owned by a Related Person, or any partial or complete liquidation, spinoff, splitoff, or splitup of the Corporation or any Subsidiary thereof; provided, however, that this Section 8.4(a)(4) shall not relate to any transaction that has been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; or
 
(5) The acquisition upon the issuance thereof of Beneficial Ownership by a Related Person of shares of Voting Stock or securities convertible into shares of Voting Stock or any voting securities or securities convertible into voting securities of any Subsidiary of the Corporation, or the acquisition upon the issuance thereof of Beneficial Ownership by a Related Person of any rights, warrants, or options to acquire any of the foregoing or any combination of the foregoing shares of Voting Stock or voting securities of a Subsidiary, if any.
 
(b) A "Series of Related Transactions" shall be deemed to include not only a series of transactions with the same Related Person, but also a series of separate transactions with a Related Person or any Affiliate or Associate of such Related Person.
 
(c) A "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, or other entity and any partnership, syndicate, or other group.
 
(d) "Related Person" shall mean any Person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation or the Continuing Directors, singly or as a group) who or that at any time described in the last sentence of the penultimate paragraph of this subsection (d):
 
(1) is the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock and who has not been the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock for a continuous period of two years prior to the date in question; or
 
(2) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question (but not continuously during such two-year period) was the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent (10%) or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock; or
 
(3) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of the Voting Stock which were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by any Related Person, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
A Related Person shall be deemed to have acquired a share of the Corporation at the time when such Related Person became the Beneficial Owner thereof. For the purposes of determining whether a Person is the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, the outstanding Voting Stock shall be deemed to include any Voting Stock that may be issuable to such Person pursuant to a right to acquire such Voting Stock and that is therefore deemed to be Beneficially Owned by such Person pursuant to Section 8.4(e)(2)(A). A Person who is a Related Person at (1) the time any definitive agreement relating to a Business Combination is entered into, (2) the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote on a Business Combination, or (3) the time immediately prior to the consummation of a Business Combination shall be deemed a Related Person.
 
A Related Person shall not include the Board of Directors of the Corporation acting as a group. In addition, a Related Person shall not include any Person who possesses ten percent (10%) or more of the voting power of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation at the time of filing these Articles of Incorporation.
 
(e) A Person shall be a "Beneficial Owner" of any shares of Voting Stock:
 
(1) which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or
 
(2) which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants, or options, or otherwise, or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding; or
 
(3) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement, or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting, or disposing of any shares of Voting Stock.
 
(f) An "Affiliate" of, or a person Affiliated with, a specific Person means a Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Person specified.
 
(g) The term "Associate" used to indicate a relationship with any Person, means (1) any corporation or organization (other than this Corporation or a majority-owned Subsidiary of this Corporation) of which such Person is an officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of five percent (5%) or more of any class of equity securities, (2) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, (3) any relative or spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person, or (4) any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, for which such Person or any Affiliate of such Person serves as investment adviser.
 
(h) "Subsidiary" means any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation; provided, however, that for the purposes of the definition of Related Person set forth in Section 8.4(d) hereof, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation.
 
(i) "Continuing Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") who is not associated with the Related Person and was a member of the Board prior to the time that the Related Person became a Related Person, and any successor of a Continuing Director who is not associated with the Related Person and is recommended to succeed a Continuing Director by not less than two-thirds (
 2
/
3
) of the Continuing Directors then on the Board.
 
(j) "Independent Majority of Shareholders" shall mean the holders of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock representing a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast by all shares of Voting Stock other than shares Beneficially Owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a Related Person.
 
(k) "Voting Stock" shall mean all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation or another corporation entitled to vote generally on the election of Directors, and each reference to a proportion of shares of Voting Stock shall refer to such proportion of the total number of votes (taking into account any multiple votes per share) entitled to be cast by such shares.
 
(l) "Substantial Part" means properties and assets involved in any single transaction or a Series of Related Transactions having an aggregate fair market value of more than ten percent (10%) of the total consolidated assets of the Person in question as determined immediately prior to such transaction or Series of Related Transactions.
 
. . A majority of the Continuing Directors shall have the power to determine for the purposes of this Article VIII, on the basis of information known to them: (a) the number of shares of Voting Stock of which any Person is the Beneficial Owner, (b) whether a Person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (c) whether a Person has an agreement, arrangement, or understanding with another as to the matters referred to in the definition of "Beneficial Owner," (d) whether the assets subject to any Business Combination constitute a Substantial Part, (e) whether two or more transactions constitute a Series of Related Transactions, and (f) such other matters with respect to which a determination is required under this Article VIII.
Section 8.5
Director Determinations
 
. . Any amendment, change, or repeal of this Article VIII or of Sections 6.6, 7.2, 7.6, 12.2, or 12.3, or any other amendment of these Articles of Incorporation which would have the effect of modifying or permitting circumvention of this Article VIII or such other provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, shall require the affirmative vote, at a meeting of shareholders of the Corporation:
Section 8.6
Amendment of Article VIII or Certain Other Provisions
 
(a) Of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of Voting Stock of the Corporation considered for purposes of this Section 8.6 as a single class; and
 
(b) Of an Independent Majority of Shareholders;
 
Provided, however, that this Section 8.6 shall not apply to, and such vote shall not be required for, any such amendment, change, or repeal recommended to shareholders by the favorable vote of not less than two-thirds (
 2
/
3
) of the Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors with respect to all Related Persons and any such amendment, change, or repeal so recommended shall require only the vote, if any, required under the applicable provisions of the Corporation Law.
 
. . Nothing in this Article VIII shall be construed to relieve any Related Person from any fiduciary duty imposed by law.
Section 8.7
Fiduciary Obligations Unaffected
 
. . The provisions of this Article VIII are nonexclusive and are in addition to any other provisions of law or these Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation relating to Business Combinations, Related Persons, or similar matters.
Section 8.8
Article VIII Nonexclusive
 
 
. . Except with the prior approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors (as defined in Section 9.14 below), no Person (as defined in Section 9.14 below) shall Beneficially Own (as defined in Section 9.14 below) shares of Capital Stock (as defined in Section 9.14 below) in excess of the Ownership Limit (as defined in Section 9.14 below). Any Transfer (as defined in Section 9.14 below) that, if effective, would result in any Person Beneficially Owning Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit shall result in such intended transferee acquiring no rights in such shares of Capital Stock (other than those rights expressly granted in this Article IX) and such number of shares of Capital Stock shall be deemed transferred to the Share Escrow Agent (as defined in Section 9.14 below) as set forth in this Article IX.
Section 9.1
Limitation on Ownership
 
. . If, notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article IX, there is a purported Transfer or other change in the capital structure of the Corporation such that any Person would Beneficially Own shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit (a "Purported Owner"), then, upon such Transfer or change in capital structure, such shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit shall be Excess Shares for purposes of this Article IX; provided, however, that in the event that any Person becomes a Purported Owner as a result of Beneficial Ownership of Capital Stock of one Person being aggregated with another Person, then the number of Excess Shares subject to this Article IX shall be allocated pro rata among each Purported Owner in proportion to each Person's total Beneficial Ownership (without regard to any aggregation with another Person pursuant to Section 9.14(b)(4) or (5). Upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any Person to exceed the Ownership Limit (including without limitation the expiration of a voting trust, without being renewed on substantially similar terms, that entitled such Person to an exemption from the Ownership Limit), all shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by such Person in excess of the Ownership Limit shall also be Excess Shares for purposes of this Article IX, such Person shall be deemed the Purported Owner of such Excess Shares and such Person's rights in such Excess Shares shall be as prescribed in this Article IX. Excess Shares shall not constitute a separate class of Capital Stock.
Section 9.2
Excess Shares
 
. . If the Corporation at any time determines that a Transfer has taken place in violation of Section 9.1 or that a Purported Owner intends to acquire or has attempted to acquire Beneficial Ownership of any shares of Capital Stock in violation of Section 9.1, the Corporation shall take such action as it deems advisable to refuse to give effect to or to prevent such Transfer, including, without limitation, refusing to give effect to such Transfer on the books of the Corporation or instituting proceedings to enjoin or rescind such Transfer; provided, however, that any purported Transfers in violation of Section 9.1 shall automatically result in all shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit being deemed Excess Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Article IX shall limit the authority of the Corporation to take such other action as it deems necessary or advisable to protect the Corporation and the interests of its stockholders.
Section 9.3
Authority of the Corporation
 
. . Any Purported Owner who acquires or attempts to acquire shares of Capital Stock in violation of Section 9.l, or any Purported Owner who is a transferee such that any shares of Capital Stock are deemed Excess Shares under Section 9.2, shall immediately give written notice to the Corporation of such event and shall provide to the Corporation such other information as the Corporation may request.
Section 9.4
Written Notice Required
 
. . Each certificate for Capital Stock issued by the Corporation shall bear an appropriate legend with regard to the restrictions on ownership and transfer of stock set forth in these Articles of Incorporation.
Section 9.5
Restrictive Legend
 
. . Upon the occurrence of a Transfer or an event that results in Excess Shares pursuant to Section 9.2, such Excess Shares shall automatically be transferred immediately to the Share Escrow Agent, which Excess Shares, subject to the provisions of this Article IX, shall be held by the Share Escrow Agent until such time as the Excess Shares are transferred to a Person whose acquisition thereof will not violate the Ownership Limit (a "Permitted Transferee") and the Share Escrow Agent shall be authorized to execute any and all documents sufficient to transfer title to any Permitted Transferee, even in the absence of receipt of certificate(s) representing Excess Shares. The Corporation shall take such actions as it deems necessary to give effect to such transfer to the Share Escrow Agent, including by issuing a stop transfer order to the Corporation's transfer agent with respect to any attempted transfer by the Purported Owner or its nominee of any Excess Shares and by giving effect, or by instructing the Corporation's transfer agent to give effect, to such transfer to a Permitted Transferee on the books of the Corporation. Excess Shares so held shall be issued and outstanding shares of Capital Stock. The Purported Owner shall have no rights in such Excess Shares except as provided in Sections 9.7, 9.8, and 9.11 and the administration of the Excess Shares escrow shall be governed by the terms of a Share Escrow Agent Agreement.
Section 9.6
Share Escrow Agent
 
. . The Share Escrow Agent, as record holder of Excess Shares, shall be entitled to receive all dividends and distributions as may be declared by the Board of Directors with respect to Excess Shares (the "Excess Share Dividends") and shall hold the Excess Share Dividends until disbursed in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.11 following. The Purported Owner, with respect to Excess Shares purported to be Beneficially Owned by such Purported Owner prior to such time that the Corporation determines that such shares are Excess Shares, shall repay to the Share Escrow Agent the amount of any Excess Share Dividends received by it that (i) are attributable to any Excess Shares and (ii) the record date of which is on or after the date that such shares become Excess Shares. The Corporation shall take all measures that it determines reasonably necessary to recover the amount of any Excess Share Dividends paid to a Purported Owner, including, if necessary, withholding any portion of future dividends or distributions payable on shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by any Purported Owner (including on shares which fall below the Ownership Limit as well as on Excess Shares), and, as soon as practicable following the Corporation's receipt or withholding thereof, shall pay over to the Share Escrow Agent the dividends so received or withheld, as the case may be.
Section 9.7
Dividends on Excess Shares
 
. . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of, or any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation, the Share Escrow Agent shall be entitled to receive, ratably with each other holder of Capital Stock of the same class or series, that portion of the assets of the Corporation that is available for distribution to the holders of such class or series of Capital Stock. The Share Escrow Agent shall distribute to the Purported Owner the amounts received upon such liquidations, dissolution or winding up or distribution in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.11.
Section 9.8
Effect of Liquidation etc. on Excess Shares
 
. . The Share Escrow Agent shall be entitled to vote all Excess Shares. The Share Escrow Agent shall be instructed by the Corporation to vote, consent or assent the Excess Shares as follows: (i) if the matter concerned is the election of directors, the Share Escrow Agent shall vote, consent or assent the whole number of Excess Shares held by the Share Escrow Agent for each director by multiplying the number of votes held in escrow by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Nonaffiliated Votes cast for the director and the denominator of which is the number of Nonaffiliated Votes that could have been cast in the election of the director and are present in person or by proxy at the meeting; (ii) where the matter under the
Section 9.9
Voting of Excess Shares
 
Corporation Law or these Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation requires at least an absolute majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock in order to be effected, then the Share Escrow Agent shall vote, assent or consent all of such Excess Shares in favor of or in opposition to such matter as the majority of all Nonaffiliated Votes are cast; and (iii) on all other matters, the Share Escrow Agent shall at all times vote, assent or consent all of such shares in the identical proportion in favor of or in opposition to such matter as Nonaffiliated Votes are cast. If any calculation of votes under the preceding sentence would require a fractional vote, the Share Escrow Agent shall vote the next lower number of whole Excess Shares. The Share Escrow Agent shall use all reasonable commercial efforts to ensure, with respect to Excess Shares, that such Excess Shares are counted as being present for the purposes of any quorum required for stockholder action of the Corporation and to vote as set forth above. For purposes of these Articles of Incorporation, "Nonaffiliated Votes" shall mean the votes cast by stockholders other than any Share Escrow Agent with respect to Excess Shares.
 
. .
Section 9.10
Sale of Excess Shares
 
(a) In an orderly fashion so as not to materially adversely affect the price of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange or, if Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the exchange or other principal market on which Common Stock is traded, the Share Escrow Agent shall sell or cause the sale of Excess Shares at such time or times as the Share Escrow Agent determines to be appropriate. The Share Escrow Agent shall have the right to take such actions as the Share Escrow Agent deems appropriate to seek to restrict sale of the shares to Permitted Transferees.
 
(b) The Share Escrow Agent shall have the power to convey to the purchaser of any Excess Shares sold by the Share Escrow Agent ownership of the Excess Shares free of any interest of the Purported Owner of those Excess Shares and free of any other adverse interest arising through the Purported Owner.
 
(c) Upon acquisition by any Permitted Transferee of any Excess Shares sold by the Share Escrow Agent or the Purported Owner, such shares shall upon such sale cease to be Excess Shares and shall become regular shares of Capital Stock in the class to which the Excess Shares belong, and the purchaser of such shares shall acquire such shares free of any claims of the Share Escrow Agent or the Purported Owner.
 
(d) To the extent permitted by law, none of the Corporation, the Share Escrow Agent or anyone else shall have any liability to the Purported Owner or anyone else by reason of any action or inaction the Corporation or the Share Escrow Agent shall take which either shall in good faith believe to be within the scope of its authority under this Article IX or by reason of any decision as to when or how to sell any Excess Shares or by reason of any other action or inaction in connection with activities under this Article IX which docs not constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting by implication the scope of the preceding sentence, to the extent permitted by law, (a) neither the Share Escrow Agent nor the Corporation shall have any liability on grounds that either failed to take actions which would have produced higher proceeds for any of the Excess Shares or by reason of the manner or timing for any disposition of any Excess Shares and (b) the Share Escrow Agent shall not be deemed to be a fiduciary or Agent of any Purported Owner.
 
. . The proceeds from the sale of the Excess Shares to a Permitted Transferee and any Excess Share Dividends shall be distributed as follows: (i) first, to the Share Escrow Agent for any costs and expenses incurred in respect of its administration of the Excess Shares that have not theretofore been reimbursed by the Corporation; (ii) second, to the Corporation for all costs and expenses incurred by the Corporation in connection with the appointment of the Share Escrow Agent, the payment of fees to the Share Escrow Agent with respect to the services provided by the Share Escrow Agent in respect of the escrow and all funds expended by the Corporation to reimburse the Share Escrow Agent for costs and expenses incurred by the Share Escrow Agent in respect of its administration of the Excess Shares and for all fees, disbursements and expenses incurred by the Share Escrow Agent in connection with the sale of the Excess Shares; and (iii) third, the remainder thereof (as the case may be) to the Purported Owner or the Person who was the holder of record before the shares were transferred to the Share Escrow Agent (depending on who shall at
Section 9.11
Application of the Proceeds from the Sale of Excess Shares
 
such time be entitled to any economic interest in the Excess Shares); provided, however, if the Share Escrow Agent shall have any questions as to whether any security interest or other interest adverse to the Purported Owner shall have existed with respect to any Excess Shares, the Share Escrow Agent shall not be obligated to disburse proceeds for those shares until the Share Escrow Agent is provided with such evidence as the Share Escrow Agent shall deem necessary to determine the parties who shall be entitled such proceeds.
 
. . Subject to Section 9.13, nothing contained in this Article IX or in any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation shall limit the authority of the Corporation to take such other action as it deems necessary or advisable to protect the Corporation and the interests of its stockholders.
Section 9.12
No Limit on the Authority of the Corporation
 
. . Nothing in these Articles of Incorporation shall preclude the settlement of any transactions entered into through the facilities of the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange or through the means of any automated quotation system now or hereafter in effect.
Section 9.13
Settlement of Transactions
 
. . The following definitions shall apply with respect to this Article IX:
Section 9.14
Definitions
 
(a) "Affiliate" and "associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or supplemented (the "Exchange Act") at the time as of which the term shall be applied.
 
(b) Except as is provided in (c) of this Section 9.14, a Person shall be deemed to "Beneficially Own," be the "Beneficial Owner" of or have "Beneficial Ownership" of any Capital Stock:
 
(1) in which such Person shall then have a direct or indirect beneficial ownership interest;
 
(2) in which such Person shall have the right to acquire any direct or indirect beneficial ownership interest pursuant to any option or other agreement (either immediately or after the passage of time or the occurrence of any contingency);
 
(3) which such Person shall have the right to vote;
 
(4) in which such Person shall hold any other interest which would count in determining whether such Person would be required to file a Schedule 13D; or
 
(5) which shall be Beneficially Owned (under the concepts provided in the preceding clauses) by any affiliate or associate of the particular Person or by any other Person with whom the particular Person or any such affiliate or associate has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities).
 
(c) The following provisions are included to clarify (b) above:
 
(1) A Person shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of, or have Beneficial Ownership of Capital Stock by reason of possessing the right to vote if (i) such right arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act, and (ii) such Person is not the Purported Owner of any Excess Shares, is not named as holding a beneficial ownership interest in any Capital Stock in any filing on Schedule 13D and is not an affiliate or associate of any such Purported Owner or named Person.
 
(2) A member of a national securities exchange or a registered depositary shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of or have Beneficial Ownership of Capital Stock held directly or indirectly by it on behalf of another Person (and not for its own account) solely because such member or depositary is the record holder of such Capital Stock, and (in the case of such member), pursuant to the rules of such exchange, such member may direct the vote of such Capital Stock without instruction on matters which are uncontested and do not affect substantially the rights or privileges of the holders of the Capital
 
Stock to be voted but is otherwise precluded by the rules of such exchange from voting such Capital Stock without instruction on either contested matters or matters that may affect substantially the rights or the privileges of the holders of such Capital Stock to be voted.
 
(3) A Person who in the ordinary course of business is a pledgee of Capital Stock under a written pledge agreement shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of or have Beneficial Ownership of such pledged Capital Stock solely by reason of such pledge until the pledgee has taken all formal steps which are necessary to declare a default or has otherwise acquired the power to vote or to direct to vote such pledged Capital Stock, provided that:
 
(A) the pledge agreement is bona fide and was not entered into with the purpose nor with the effect of changing or influencing the control of the Corporation, nor in connection with any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act; and
 
(B) the pledge agreement does not grant to the pledgee the right to vote or to direct the vote of the pledged securities prior to the time the pledgee has taken all formal steps which are necessary to declare a default.
 
(4) A Person engaged in business as an underwriter or a placement agent for securities who enters into an agreement to acquire or acquires Capital Stock solely by reason of its participation in good faith and in the ordinary course of its business in the capacity of underwriter or placement agent in any underwriting or agent representation registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and in effect on the date these Articles of Incorporation were filed with the office of the Indiana Secretary of State (the "Securities Act"), a bona fide private placement, a resale under Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act or in any foreign or other offering exempt from the registration requirements under the Securities Act shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of or have Beneficial Ownership of such securities until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition so long as (i) such Person does not vote such Capital Stock during such period and (ii) such participation is not with the purpose or with the effect of changing or influencing control of the Corporation, nor in connection with or facilitating any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act.
 
(5) If the Corporation shall sell shares in a transaction not involving any public offering, then each purchaser in such offering shall be deemed to obtain Beneficial Ownership in such offering of the shares purchased by such purchaser, but no particular purchaser shall be deemed to Beneficially Own or have acquired Beneficial Ownership or be the Beneficial Owner in such offering of shares purchased by any other purchaser solely by reason of the fact that all such purchasers are parties to customary agreements relating to the purchase of equity securities directly from the Corporation in a transaction not involving a public offering, provided that:
 
(A) all the purchasers are persons specified in Rule 13d-1(b)(1)(ii) promulgated under the Exchange Act;
 
(B) the purchase is in the ordinary course of each purchaser's business and not with the purpose nor with the effect of changing or influencing control of the Corporation, nor in connection with or as a participant in any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act;
 
(C) there is no agreement among or between any purchasers to act together with respect to the Corporation or its securities except for the purpose of facilitating the specific purchase involved; and
 
(D) the only actions among or between any purchasers with respect to the Corporation or its securities subsequent to the closing date of the nonpublic offering are those which are necessary to conclude ministerial matters directly related to the completion of the offer or sale of the securities sold in such offering.
 
(6) The Share Escrow Agent shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any Excess Shares held by such Share Escrow Agent pursuant to a Share Escrow Agent Agreement, nor shall any such Excess Shares be aggregated with any other share of Capital Stock held by affiliates or associates of such Share Escrow Agent.
 
(d) "Capital Stock" shall mean shares (or any other basic unit) of any class or series of any voting security which the Corporation may at any time issue or be authorized to issue, that entitles the holder thereof to vote on any election, but not necessarily all elections, of directors. To the extent that classes or series of Capital Stock vote together in the election of directors with equal votes per share, they shall be treated as a single class of Capital Stock for the purpose of computing the relevant Ownership Limit or the right to amend these Articles of Incorporation.
 
(e) "Continuing Director" shall mean each member of the initial Board of Directors of the Corporation and any new member of the Board of Directors whose nomination for election to the board was approved by a vote of two-thirds of the directors still in office who were initial directors named in these Articles of Incorporation or whose nomination was approved by such directors.
 
(f) "Institutional Investor" means any Person if (but only if) such Person is:
 
(1) a broker or dealer registered under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
 
(2) a bank as defined in Section 3(a)(6) of the Exchange Act;
 
(3) an insurance company as defined in Section 3(a)(19) of the Exchange Act;
 
(4) an investment company registered under Section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
 
(5) an investment adviser registered under Section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940;
 
(6) an employee benefit plan, or pension fund which is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 or an endowment fund;
 
(7) a parent holding company, provided the aggregate amount held directly by the parent, and directly and indirectly by its subsidiaries which are not persons specified in subsections (1) through (6) above, does not exceed one percent of the securities of the subject class such as common stock; or
 
(8) a group, provided that all the members are Persons specified in the subsections (1) through (7) above.
 
(g) "License Agreement" shall mean the license agreement between the Corporation and the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, including any and all addenda thereto, now in effect and, as it may be amended, modified, superseded and/or replaced from time to time, with respect to, among other things, the "Blue Cross" and "Blue Shield" name and mark.
 
(h) "Noninstitutional Investor" means any Person that is not an Institutional Investor.:
 
(i) "Ownership Limit" shall mean the following:
 
(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Subsection (i), the Ownership Limit for any Noninstitutional Investor shall be that number of shares of Capital Stock one share lower than the number of shares of Capital Stock which would represent 5% of the Voting Power.
 
(2) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Subsection (i), the Ownership Limit for any Institutional Investor shall be that number of shares of Capital Stock one share lower than the number of shares of Capital Stock which would represent 10% of the Voting Power.
 
(3) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Subsection (i), the Ownership Limit for any Person shall be one share lower than that number of shares of Common Stock or other equity securities (or a combination thereof) which would represent 20% of the ownership interest in the Corporation.
 
(4) In the event the Corporation and Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association shall agree in writing, through an amendment of the License Agreement or otherwise, that an Ownership Limit of a higher percentage than that prescribed in clause (1), (2) or (3) shall apply, then the Ownership Limit shall be as specified in such written agreement.
 
(5) In the event any particular Person shall Beneficially Own shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit which would apply were it not for this clause (5) (the "Regular Limit"), such ownership shall not be deemed to exceed the Ownership Limit provided that (i) such Person shall not at any time Beneficially Own shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Regular Limit plus 1% and (ii) within thirty (30) days of the time when the particular Person becomes aware of the fact that the regular Limit has been exceeded, the particular Person reduces such Person's Beneficial Ownership below the Regular Limit.
 
(j) "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, association, joint venture or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of any such entity.
 
(k) "Schedule 13D" means a report on Schedule 13D under Regulation 13D of the Exchange Act as in effect on the date these Articles of Incorporation were filed with the office of the Indiana Secretary of State and any report which may be required in the future under any requirements which Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association shall reasonably judge to have any of the purposes served by Schedule 13D as in effect on the date these Articles of Incorporation were filed with the office of the Indiana Secretary of State.
 
(l) "Share Escrow Agent" shall mean the Person appointed by the Corporation to act as escrow agent with respect to some or all of the Excess Shares.
 
(m) "Transfer" shall mean any sale, transfer, gift, hypothecation, pledge, assignment, devise or other disposition of Capital Stock (including (i) the granting of any option or entering into any agreement for the sale, transfer or other disposition of Capital Stock or (ii) the sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for Capital Stock), whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record, constructively or beneficially and whether by operation of law or otherwise.
 
(n) "Voting Power." The percentage of the voting power attributable to the shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by any particular Person shall be equal to the percentage of all votes which could be cast in any election of any director which could be accounted for by the shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by that particular Person. If in connection with an election for any particular position on the Board, shares in different classes or series are entitled to be voted together for purposes of such election, then in determining the number of "all votes which could be cast" in the election for that particular position for purposes of the preceding sentence, the number shall be equal to the number of votes which could be cast in the election for that particular position if all shares entitled to be voted in such election (regardless of series or class) were in fact voted in such election. If the Corporation shall issue any series or class of shares for which positions on the Board are reserved or shall otherwise issue shares which have voting rights which can arise or vary based upon terms governing that class or series, then the percentage of the voting power represented by the shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by any particular Person shall be the highest percentage of the total votes which could be accounted for by those shares in any election of any director.
 
. . Any amendment, change or repeal of this Article 1X, or of Section 5.3(a) or 6.1 of these Articles of Incorporation, shall require the affirmative vote, at a meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation, of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of Voting Stock (as defined in Section 8.4(k)) of the Corporation, considered for purposes of this Section 9.15 as a single class.
Section 9.15
Amendment of Article IX, Section 5.3(a) or Section 6.1
 
 
The name and post office address of the members of the first Board of Directors of the Corporation are as follows:
 
 
 
The name and post office address of the incorporator of the Corporation are as follows:
 
 
 
. . Except as otherwise expressly provided for in these Articles of Incorporation, the Corporation shall be deemed, for all purposes, to have reserved the right to amend, alter, change, or repeal any provision contained in these Articles of Incorporation to the extent and in the manner now or hereafter permitted or prescribed by statute, and all rights herein conferred upon shareholders are granted subject to such reservation.
Section 12.1
Amendment or Repeal
 
. . Except for the acquisition by the Corporation of all of the outstanding capital stock of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc. ("Anthem Insurance"), in connection with the conversion of Anthem Insurance from a mutual insurance company to a stock insurance company under the Indiana Demutualization Law (Ind. Code 27-15), during the five (5) year period commencing on the effective date of such conversion, no person or persons acting in concert (other than the Corporation, Anthem Insurance, or any other company that is directly or indirectly wholly owned by the Corporation, or any employee benefit plans or trusts sponsored by the Corporation or Anthem Insurance) may directly or indirectly acquire, or agree or offer to acquire, in any manner the beneficial ownership of five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding shares of any class of a voting security of the Corporation or Anthem Insurance, in compliance with Ind. Code 27-15-13-2.
Section 12.2
Restriction on Acquisition of Ownership of 5% of More
other
than
 
. . If and whenever the provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-42 apply to the Corporation, it is authorized to redeem its securities pursuant to Ind. Code 23-1-42-10.
Section 12.3
Redemption of Shares Acquired in Control Share Acquisitions
 
. . The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer or any other officers designated by the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend any meeting of shareholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock, and to act, vote (or execute proxies to vote) and exercise in person or by proxy all other rights, powers and privileges incident to the ownership of such stock. Such officers acting on behalf of the Corporation shall have full power and authority to execute any instrument expressing consent to or dissent from any action of any such corporation without a meeting.
Section 12.4
Voting as a Shareholder
 
. . The captions of the Articles and Sections of these Articles of Incorporation have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not in any way define, limit, construe, or describe the scope or intent of any Article or Section hereof.
Section 12.5
Captions
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Annual meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held each year commencing in 2002, on such date, at such hour and at such place within or without the State of Indiana as shall be designated by the Board of Directors. In the absence of designation, the meeting shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 1.1. Annual Meetings
 
. Special meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, as the case may be, calling a special meeting of shareholders shall set the date, time and place of such meeting, which may be held within or without the State of Indiana.
Section 1.2. Special Meetings
 
. A written notice, stating the date, time, and place of any meeting of the shareholders, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, shall be delivered, mailed or sent by electronic transmission by the Secretary of the Corporation, to each shareholder of record of the Corporation entitled to notice of or to vote at such meeting no fewer than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting. Notice of shareholders' meetings, if mailed, shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each shareholder at his or her address shown in the Corporation's current record of shareholders.
Section 1.3. Notices
 
Notice of a meeting of shareholders shall be given to shareholders not entitled to vote, but only if a purpose for the meeting is to vote on any amendment to the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, merger, or share exchange to which the Corporation would be a party, sale of the Corporation's assets, dissolution of the Corporation, or consideration of voting rights to be accorded to shares acquired or to be acquired in a "control share acquisition" (as such term is defined in the Indiana Business Corporation Law). Except as required by the foregoing sentence or as otherwise required by the Indiana Business Corporation Law or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, notice of a meeting of shareholders is required to be given only to shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
A shareholder or his or her proxy may at any time waive notice of a meeting if the waiver is in writing and is delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the Corporation's records. A shareholder's attendance at a meeting, whether in person or by proxy, (a) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder or his proxy at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (b) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder or his proxy objects to considering the matter when it is presented. Each shareholder who has, in the manner above provided, waived notice or objection to notice of a shareholders' meeting shall be conclusively presumed to have been given due notice of such meeting, including the purpose or purposes thereof.
 
If an annual or special shareholders' meeting is adjourned to a different date, time, or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time, or place if the new date, time, or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment, unless a new record date is or must be established for the adjourned meeting.
 
. At each annual meeting, the shareholders shall elect the directors and shall conduct only such other business as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a shareholder of the Corporation who (i) was a shareholder of record at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Section 1.4, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.4. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive office of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting and in the case of the annual meeting to be held in 2002, by January 31, 2002; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement (as defined herein) of the date of such meeting is first made.
Section 1.4. Business of Shareholder Meetings
 
Such shareholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and the name and address of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner as of the date such notice is given, and (iii) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business; (c) in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend either the Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment; and (d) if the shareholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such shareholder's proposal, a representation to that effect. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a shareholder if the shareholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting and such shareholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by management of the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting; provided, however, that if such shareholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such annual meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with this Section 1.4, and the Chairman of the Board or other person presiding at an annual meeting of shareholders may refuse to permit any business to be brought before an annual meeting without compliance with the foregoing procedures or if the shareholder solicits proxies in support of such shareholder's proposal without such shareholder having made the representation required by clause (d) of the second preceding sentence.
 
For the purposes of this Section 1.4, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In addition to the provisions of this Section 1.4, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth herein. Nothing in these By-Laws shall be deemed to affect any rights of the shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
 
In no event shall the adjournment of a meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
 
. Nominations of persons for election as Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 1.5 and who is entitled to vote in the election of Directors. Any shareholder of record entitled to vote in the election of Directors at a meeting may nominate a person or persons for election as Directors only if timely written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination is given to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with the procedures for bringing business before an annual meeting set forth in Section 1.4 of these By-Laws. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of shareholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting and in the case of the annual meeting to be held in 2002, by January 31, 2002; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement (as defined for purposes of Section 1.4 of these By-Laws) is first made of the date of such meeting, and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of shareholders, not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees to be elected at such meeting.
Section 1.5. Notice of Shareholder Nominations
 
Such shareholder's notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the shareholder who intends to make the nomination, of the person or persons to be nominated and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made; (b) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting in such election and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the shareholder, any such beneficial owner, each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director if so elected; and (f) if the shareholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The chairman of any meeting of shareholders to elect Directors and the Board of Directors may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the shareholder solicits proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee(s) without such shareholder having made the representation required by clause (f) of the preceding sentence. In addition to the provisions of this Section 1.5, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth herein.
 
. Except as otherwise provided by the Indiana Business Corporation Law or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, each share of Common Stock of the Corporation that is outstanding at the record date established for any annual or special meeting of shareholders and is outstanding at the time of and represented in person or by proxy at the annual or special meeting, shall entitle the record holder thereof, or his proxy, to one (1) vote on each matter voted on at the meeting.
Section 1.6. Voting
 
. Unless the Indiana Business Corporation Law provides otherwise, at all meetings of shareholders, twenty-five percent (25%) of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for action on the matter. Action may be taken at a shareholders' meeting only on matters with respect to which a quorum exists; provided, however, that any meeting of shareholders, including annual and special meetings and any adjournments thereof, may be adjourned to a later date although less than a quorum is present. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting.
Section 1.7. Quorum
 
. If a quorum exists as to a matter to be considered at a meeting of shareholders, action on such matter (other than the election of Directors) is approved if the votes properly cast favoring the action exceed the votes properly cast opposing the action, except as the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or the Indiana Business Corporation Law require a greater number of affirmative votes. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes properly cast.
Section 1.8. Vote Required To Take Action
 
. Only such persons shall be entitled to notice of or to vote, in person or by proxy, at any shareholders' meeting as shall appear as shareholders upon the books of the Corporation as of such record date as the Board of Directors shall determine, which date may not be earlier than the date seventy (70) days immediately preceding the meeting. In the absence of such determination, the record date shall be the fiftieth (50th) day immediately preceding the date of such meeting. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, shareholders shall be determined as of the close of business on the record date.
Section 1.9. Record Date
 
. A shareholder may vote his or her shares either in person or by proxy. A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for the shareholder (including authorizing the proxy to receive, or to waive, notice of any shareholders' meeting within the effective period of such proxy) by signing an appointment form, either personally or by the shareholder's attorney-in-fact. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes and is effective for eleven (11) months unless a longer period is expressly provided in the appointment form. The proxy's authority may be limited to a particular meeting or may be general and authorize the proxy to represent the shareholder at any meeting of shareholders held within the time provided in the appointment form. Subject to the Indiana Business Corporation Law and to any express limitation on the proxy's authority appearing on the face of the appointment form, the Corporation is entitled to accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the shareholder making the appointment.
Section 1.10. Proxies
 
. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of any share or shares of stock of the Corporation, as recorded on the stock record or transfer books of the Corporation, as the holder of record and as the holder and owner in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be required to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share(s) on the part of any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or association, whether or not the Corporation shall have express or other notice thereof, save as is otherwise expressly required by law, and the term "shareholder" as used in these By-Laws means one who is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation.
Section 1.11. Record Ownership
 
. Any or all of the members of the Board of Directors may be removed only at a meeting of the shareholders or Directors called expressly for that purpose. Removal by the shareholders requires an affirmative vote of the holders of outstanding shares representing at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the votes then entitled to be cast at an election of Directors. Removal by the Board of Directors requires an affirmative vote of both (a) a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, and (b) a majority of the entire number of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation).
Section 1.12. Removal of Directors
 
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at a shareholders' meeting may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action, and delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records reflecting the action taken. Action taken under this Section 1.12 is effective when the last shareholder signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 1.12 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all shareholders and may be described as such in any document.
Section 1.13. Written Consents
 
. The Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director or the Board of Directors may permit any or all shareholders to participate in an annual or special meeting of shareholders by, or through the use of, any means of communication, such as conference telephone, by which all shareholders participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A shareholder participating in a meeting by such means shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
Section 1.14. Participation Other Than in Person
 
 
 
. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of at least five (5) Directors, but not more than nineteen (19) Directors, with the actual number of Directors being fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Directors shall be divided into three (3) groups, with each group consisting of one-third (
Section 2.1. Number and Terms
 1
/
3
) of the total Directors, as near as may be, with the term of office of the first group to expire at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2002, the term of office of the second group to expire at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2003, and the term of office of the third group to expire at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2004; and at each annual meeting of shareholders, the Directors chosen to succeed those whose terms then expire shall be identified as being of the same group as the Directors they succeed and shall be elected for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of shareholders.
 
Despite the expiration of a Director's term, the Director shall continue to serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until the earlier of his or her death, resignation, disqualification or removal, or until there is a decrease in the number of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, from whatever cause arising, shall be filled by selection of a successor by a majority vote of the remaining members (although less than a quorum) of the Board of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation); provided, however, that if such vacancy or vacancies leave the Board of Directors with no members who then qualify as Continuing Directors or if the remaining members of the Board who then qualify as Continuing Directors are unable to agree upon a successor or determine not to select a successor, such vacancy may be filled by a vote of the shareholders at a special meeting called for that purpose or at the next annual meeting of shareholders. The term of a Director elected or selected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the end of the term for which such Director's predecessor was elected, or if the vacancy arises because of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, at the end of the term specified at the time of election or selection.
 
The Directors and each of them shall have no authority to bind the Corporation except when acting as a Board.
 
. A majority of the whole Board of Directors shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, except the filling of vacancies. If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the act of a greater number is required by the Indiana Business Corporation Law, the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
Section 2.2. Quorum and Vote Required To Take Action
 
. The Board of Directors shall meet annually, without notice, immediately following the annual meeting of the shareholders, for the purpose of transacting such business as properly may come before the meeting. Other regular meetings of the Board of Directors, in addition to said annual meeting, shall be held on such dates, at such times and at such places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and specified in a notice of each such regular meeting, or otherwise communicated to the Directors. The Board of Directors may at any time alter the date for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.3. Annual and Regular Meetings
 
. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer or by one quarter (1/4) of the whole authorized
Section 2.4. Special Meetings
 
number of Directors, upon not less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice given to each Director of the date, time, and place of the meeting, which notice need not specify the purpose or purposes of the special meeting. Such notice may be communicated in person (either in writing or orally), by telephone, telegraph, teletype, or other form of wire or wireless communication, or by mail, and shall be effective at the earlier of the time of its receipt or, if mailed, three (3) days after its mailing. Notice of any meeting of the Board may be waived in writing at any time if the waiver is signed by the Director entitled to the notice and is filed with the minutes or corporate records. A Director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to the Director of the meeting, unless the Director at the beginning of the meeting (or promptly upon the Director's arrival) objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
 
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by each Director, and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken. Action taken under this Section 2.5 is effective when the last Director signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 2.5 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all members of the Board and may be described as such in any document.
Section 2.5. Written Consents
 
. The Board of Directors may permit any or all Directors to participate in a regular or special meeting by, or through the use of, any means of communication, such as conference telephone, by which all Directors participating may simultaneously, hear each other during the meeting. A Director participating in a meeting by such means shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
Section 2.6. Participation Other Than in Person
 
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to an Executive Committee. The duties of the Executive Committee shall, subject to the restrictions of Section 2.13 hereof, be to exercise the authority of the full Board of Directors at any times other than during regular or special meetings of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.7. Executive Committee
 
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Compensation Committee. The duties of the Compensation Committee shall be to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the establishment of the compensation philosophy and the setting of the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and officers.
Section 2.8. Compensation Committee
 
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to an Audit Committee. The duties of the Audit Committee shall be to assist the Board in overseeing (a) the integrity of the Corporation's financial statements and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, (b) the appointment, retention and compensation of the independent auditors and (c) the performance of the Corporation's internal audit and compliance function and independent auditors.
Section 2.9. Audit Committee
 
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Planning Committee. The duties of the Planning Committee shall be to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to strategic and operational planning and performance.
Section 2.10. Planning Committee
 
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Governance Committee. The duties of the Governance Committee shall be to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to Board composition and corporate governance.
Section 2.11. Governance Committee
 
. The Board of Directors may create one (1) or more committees in addition to any Executive Committee, Compensation Committee, Audit Committee, Planning Committee or Governance
Section 2.12. Other Committees
 
Committee and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them, by resolution of the Board of Directors adopted by a majority of all the Directors in office when the resolution is adopted. The committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors to the extent specified in the resolution. Each committee may have one (1) or more members, and all the members of such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 2.13. Limitations on Committees; Notice, Quorum and Voting.
 
(a) Neither the Executive Committee, Compensation Committee, Audit Committee, Planning Committee, Governance Committee nor any other committee hereafter established may:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Except to the extent inconsistent with the resolutions creating a committee, Sections 2.1 through 2.6 of these By-Laws, which govern meetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, quorum and voting requirements and participation in meetings of the Board of Directors other than in person, apply to each committee and its members as well.
 
. Unless otherwise restricted by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or theses By-Laws, Directors shall receive for their services on the Board or any Committee thereof such compensation and benefits, including the granting of options, together with expenses, if any, as the Board may from time to time determine. The Directors may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or Committee thereof and / or a stated annual sum as a Director, together with expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board or Committee thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Section 2.14. Compensation of Directors
 
 
 
. The officers of the Corporation shall consist of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, and the Secretary. The Board of Directors may also elect Executive Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Controller, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers or assistant officers as it may from time to time determine by resolution creating the office and defining the duties thereof. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, by a certificate of appointment creating the office and defining the duties and term thereof delivered to the Secretary for inclusion with the corporate records, from time to time create and appoint such assistant officers as they deem desirable. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of
Section 3.1. Designation, Selection and Terms
 
Directors (or appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President as provided above) and need not be selected from among the members of the Board of Directors, except for the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director and the Chief Executive Officer who shall be members of the Board of Directors. Any two (2) or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with respect to officers appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President, also at the pleasure of such officers. The election or appointment of an officer does not itself create contract rights.
 
. The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time with or without cause. An officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President may also be removed at any time, with or without cause, by any of such officers. Vacancies in such offices, however occurring, may be filled by the Board of Directors at any meeting of the Board of Directors (or by appointment by the Chief Executive Officer or the President, to the extent provided in Section 3.1 of these By-Laws).
Section 3.2. Removal
 
Section 3.3. Chairman of the Board and Presiding Director.
 
(a) . The Chairman of the Board, if any, shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
 
(b) . The Presiding Director, if any, shall, if present, preside at the meetings of the shareholders and Board of Directors in the absence of the Chairman of the Board.
Presiding Director
 
. The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive and principal policymaking officer of the Corporation. Subject to the authority of the Board of Directors, he or she shall formulate the major policies to be pursued in the administration of the Corporation's affairs. He or she shall study and make reports and recommendations to the Board of Directors with respect to major problems and activities of the Corporation and shall see that the established policies are placed into effect and carried out. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, and the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.4. Chief Executive Officer
 
. Subject to the provisions of Sections 3.3 and 3.4, the President shall exercise the powers and perform the duties which ordinarily appertain to such office and shall manage and operate the business and affairs of the Corporation in conformity with the policies established by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, or as may be provided for in these By-Laws. In connection with the performance of his or her duties, he or she shall keep the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director and the Chief Executive Officer fully informed as to all phases of the Corporation's activities. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director and the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and, if a Director, at meetings of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.5. President
 
. The Chief Financial Officer shall be the chief financial officer of the Corporation and shall perform all of the duties customary to that office. He or she shall be responsible for all of the Corporation's financial affairs, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Executive Officer, and shall have and perform such further powers and duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.6. Chief Financial Officer
 
. Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.7. Executive Vice President
 
. The Chief Accounting Officer shall perform all of the duties customary to that office, shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall be responsible for maintaining the Corporation's accounting books and records and preparing its financial statements, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Financial Officer and other superior officers within the Corporation. He or
Section 3.8. Chief Accounting Officer
 
she shall also be responsible for causing the Corporation to furnish financial statements to its shareholders pursuant to Ind. Code 23-1-53-1.
 
. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the books, papers, and records of the Corporation and of its corporate seal, if any, and shall be responsible for seeing that the Corporation maintains the records required by Ind. Code 23-1-52-1 (other than accounting records) and that the Corporation files with the Indiana Secretary of State the biennial report required by Ind. Code 23-1-53-3. The Secretary shall be responsible for preparing minutes of the meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and for authenticating records of the Corporation, and he or she shall perform all of the other duties usual in the office of Secretary of a corporation.
Section 3.9. Secretary
 
. Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.10. Vice Presidents
 
. The Treasurer, if any, shall be responsible for the treasury functions of the Corporation, subject to the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer.
Section 3.11. Treasurer
 
. The Board of Directors may, at its discretion, from time to time, fix the salary of any officer by resolution included in the minute book of the Corporation.
Section 3.12. Salary
 
 
 
All checks, drafts, or other orders for payment of money shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by such officers or persons as shall be designated from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and included in the minute book of the Corporation; and in the absence of such designation, such checks, drafts, or other orders for payment shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer.
 
 
 
Such of the officers of the Corporation as shall be designated from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and included in the minute book of the Corporation, and in the absence of such designation and subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors may fix, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and the Chief Financial Officer, shall have the power, with such limitations thereon as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, to borrow money in the Corporation's behalf, to establish credit, to discount bills and papers, to pledge collateral, and to execute such notes, bonds, debentures, or other evidences of indebtedness, and such mortgages, trust indentures, and other instruments in connection therewith, as may be authorized from time to time by such Board of Directors.
 
 
 
The Chief Executive Officer, the President or any other officer authorized by the Board of Directors may, in the Corporation's name, acting singly, sign all deeds, leases, contracts, or similar documents unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors or otherwise provided herein or in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, or as otherwise required by law. Only one signature is required, unless otherwise provided by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
. The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until each certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Certificates for shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and the seal of the Corporation (or a facsimile thereof), if any, may be thereto affixed. Where any such certificate is also signed by a transfer agent or a registrar, or both, the signatures of the officers of the Corporation may be facsimiles. The Corporation may issue and deliver any such certificate notwithstanding that any such officer who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature shall have been imprinted on, such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer.
Section 7.1. Certificates of Stock; Uncertificated Shares; Execution
 
. Each certificate issued after the adoption of these By-Laws shall state on its face the name of the Corporation and that it is organized under the laws of the State of Indiana, the name of the person to whom it is issued, and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, the certificate represents, and shall state conspicuously on its front or back that the Corporation will furnish the shareholder, upon his written request and without charge, a summary of the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations applicable to each class and the variations in rights, preferences, and limitations determined for each series (and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series).
Section 7.2. Contents
 
. Except as otherwise provided by law or by resolution of the Board of Directors, transfers of shares of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof, in person or by duly authorized attorney, on payment of all taxes thereon and surrender for cancellation of the certificate or certificates for such shares (except as hereinafter provided in the case of loss, destruction, or mutilation of certificates) properly endorsed by the holder thereof or accompanied by the proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer, and delivered to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
Section 7.3. Transfers
 
. There shall be entered upon the stock records of the Corporation the number of each certificate issued, the name and address of the registered holder of such certificate, the number, kind, and class of shares represented by such certificate, the date of issue, whether the shares are originally issued or transferred, the registered holder from whom transferred, and such other information as is commonly required to be shown by such records. The stock records of the Corporation shall be kept at its principal office, unless the Corporation appoints a transfer agent or registrar, in which case the Corporation shall keep at its principal office a complete and accurate shareholders' list giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each, which shall be updated periodically as determined by the Secretary, but not less frequently than quarterly, and which shall be updated as of each record date established with respect to a meeting of shareholders or other shareholder action. If a transfer agent is appointed by the Corporation, shareholders shall give written notice of any changes in their addresses from time to time to the transfer agent.
Section 7.4. Stock Transfer Records
 
. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars and may require each stock certificate to bear the signature of either or both.
Section 7.5. Transfer Agents and Registrars
 
. The holder of any shares of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction, or mutilation of the certificate therefor, and the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, cause to be issued to him a new certificate or certificates, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate, or, in the case of loss or destruction, upon satisfactory proof of such loss or destruction. The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, require the holder of the lost or destroyed certificate or his legal representative to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and in such form, and with such surety or sureties as it may direct, to indemnify the Corporation, its transfer agents, and registrars, if any, against any claim that may be made against them or any of them with respect to the shares represented by the certificate or
Section 7.6. Loss, Destruction, or Mutilation of Certificates
 
certificates alleged to have been lost or destroyed, but the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, refuse to issue a new certificate or certificates, save upon the order of a court having jurisdiction in such matters.
 
. The form of the certificates for shares of the Corporation shall conform to the requirements of Section 7.2 of these By-Laws and be in such printed form as shall from time to time be approved by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 7.7. Form of Certificates
 
 
 
The corporate seal of the Corporation shall, if the Corporation elects to have one, be in the form of a disc, with the name of the Corporation and "INDIANA" on the periphery thereof and the word "SEAL" in the center.
 
 
 
. The provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation law, as amended, applicable to all matters relevant to, but not specifically covered by, these By-Laws are hereby, by reference, incorporated in and made a part of these By-Laws.
Section 9.1. Indiana Business Corporation Law
 
. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on December 31 of each year.
Section 9.2. Fiscal Year
 
. Effective upon the registration of any class of the Corporation's shares under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Corporation shall be governed by the provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-43 regarding business combinations.
Section 9.3. Election to be governed by Indiana Code  23-1-43
 
. The provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-42 shall apply to the acquisition of shares of the Corporation.
Section 9.4. Control Share Acquisition Statute
 
. If and whenever the provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-42 apply to the Corporation, any or all control shares acquired in a control share acquisition shall be subject to redemption by the Corporation, if either:
Section 9.5. Redemption of Shares Acquired in Control Share Acquisitions
 
(a) no acquiring person statement has been filed with the Corporation with respect to such control share acquisition in accordance with Ind. Code 23-1-42-6, or
 
(b) the control shares are not accorded full voting rights by the Corporation's shareholders as provided in Ind. Code 23-1-42-9.
 
A redemption pursuant to Section 9.5(a) may be made at any time during the period ending sixty (60) days after the last acquisition of control shares by the acquiring person. A redemption pursuant to Section 9.5(b) may be made at any time during the period ending two (2) years after the shareholder vote with respect to the granting of voting rights to such control shares. Any redemption pursuant to this Section 9.5 shall be made at the fair value of the control shares and pursuant to such procedures for such redemption as may be set forth in these By-Laws or adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
As used in this Section 9.5, the terms "control shares," "control share acquisition," "acquiring person statement," and "acquiring person" shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in Ind. Code 23-1-42.
 
. These By-Laws may be rescinded, changed, or amended, and provisions hereof may be waived, at any meeting of the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, except as otherwise required by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or by the Indiana Business Corporation Law.
Section 9.6. Amendments
 
. The term "Articles of Incorporation" as used in these By-Laws means the articles of incorporation of the Corporation as from time to time are in effect.
Section 9.7. Definition of Articles of Incorporation
 
 
 
. The provisions of this Article X shall become effective (the "Effective Time") if and when WellPoint Health Networks Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WHN"), merges with and into Anthem Holding Corp., an Indiana corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to an Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of October 26, 2003 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among the Corporation, Merger Sub and WHN. The provisions of this Article X shall expire and become null and void on the date of the second anniversary of the Effective Time (the "Expiration Date").
Section 10.1. Effective Time; Expiration Date
 
. Notwithstanding any other provisions of these By-Laws to the contrary, from the Effective Time until the Expiration Date the provisions of this Article X shall be controlling. The provisions of this Article X shall not be rescinded, changed or amended, nor may the provisions of this Article X be waived, except by the affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 10.2. Effect of the Provisions in this Article X
 
. At the Effective Time, the Corporation's Board of Directors shall be comprised of nineteen (19) Directors, to consist of eleven (11) of the then current members of the Corporation's Board of Directors (including the then current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation), designated by the Corporation before the Effective Time, at least six (6) of whom must be "independent" under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the Corporation (the "Former Corporation Directors"), and eight (8) of the then current members of WHN's Board of Directors (including the then current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of WHN), designated by WHN before the Effective Time, at least five (5) of whom must be "independent" under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the Corporation (the "Former WHN Directors"). If any Former Corporation Director or Former WHN Director designated shall be unable or unwilling to serve as a Director at the Effective Time, the party which designated such individual as indicated above shall designate another individual reasonably acceptable to the Governance Committee to serve in such individual's place. The Former Corporation Directors and Former WHN Directors who are designated shall be split such that one (1) of the three (3) classes of the Corporation's Directors will be comprised of four (4) Former Corporation Directors and three (3) Former WHN Directors, one (1) of the three (3) classes of the Corporation's Directors will be comprised of four (4) Former Corporation Directors and two (2) Former WHN Directors and one (1) of the three (3) classes of the Corporation's Directors will be comprised of three (3) Former Corporation Directors and three (3) Former WHN Directors. Prior to the Effective Time, each of the Corporation and WHN will designate in writing the class to which each individual Director designated by such party is to be assigned. The members of the Corporation's Board of Directors as of the Effective Time will serve as Directors until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified in accordance with the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and applicable law unless he or she earlier resigns, retires, is removed or is unable to serve.
Section 10.3. Composition of Board of Directors
 
. As of the Effective Time and until the Expiration Date, unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise by an affirmative vote of not less then eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, in the event that a Former Corporation Director or a Director otherwise elected or nominated to the Board of Directors by the Former Corporation Directors as set forth herein (such Directors together with the Former Corporation Directors, the "Corporation Aligned Directors") or a Former WHN Director or a Director otherwise elected or nominated to the Board of Directors by the Former WHN Directors as set forth herein (such Directors together with the Former WHN Directors, the "WHN Aligned Directors"), shall
Section 10.4. Nomination of Directors
 
resign, retire, be removed, no longer be able to serve or not stand or be standing for reelection (for whatever reason, including the failure of the Board of Directors to nominate such person), then (a) if such Director shall be a Corporation Aligned Director, then the Corporation Aligned Directors shall have the exclusive right to nominate an individual reasonably acceptable to the Governance Committee to fill such vacancy and the entire Board of Directors shall either elect such person a Director to fill such vacancy or, if applicable, nominate such person for election as a Director by the shareholders of the Corporation, and (b) if such Director shall be a WHN Aligned Director, then the WHN Aligned Directors shall have the exclusive right to nominate an individual reasonably acceptable to the Governance Committee to fill such vacancy and the entire Board of Directors shall either elect such person a Director to fill such vacancy or, if applicable, nominate such person for election as a Director by the shareholders of the Corporation. The term of any Director elected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the end of the term for which such Director's predecessor was elected.
 
. Leonard D. Schaeffer shall be elected by the Board of Directors as the non-executive Chairman of the Board and the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors as of the Effective Time and, unless he earlier resigns, retires or is unable to serve, or unless the Board of Directors removes him by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, shall occupy such position until the Expiration Date and shall retire from such position and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, of any other committees of the Board of Directors and as a director of the Foundation (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and any other foundations controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation as of the Expiration Date. Upon the earlier of (a) Mr. Schaeffer's resignation, retirement, removal or inability to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board or as a Director, and (b) the Expiration Date, unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Board of Directors as Chairman of the Board.
Section 10.5. Chairmanship
 
. Larry C. Glasscock shall be President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation as of the Effective Time, and unless he earlier resigns, retires or is unable to serve, or unless the Board of Directors removes him by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, shall occupy such position until at least the Expiration Date.
Section 10.6. Officers
 
 
 
. From the Effective Time (as defined in Section 10.1 hereof) and at least until the date that is five years following the Effective Time, the headquarters and principal executive offices of the Corporation shall be located in Indianapolis, Indiana, unless the Corporation's Board of Directors decides otherwise by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 11.1. Location of Headquarters
 
. Notwithstanding any other provisions of these By-Laws to the contrary, from the Effective Time until the date that is five years following the Effective Time, the provisions of this Article XI shall be controlling. The provisions of this Article XI shall not be rescinded, changed or amended, nor may the provisions of this Article XI be waived, except by the affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 11.2. Effect of the Provisions in this Article XI
 

Exhibit 15.1
 
November 30, 2004
 
Securities and Exchange Commission
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Commissioners:
 
We are aware that our report dated October 22, 2004, except Notes 9 and 16 as to which the date is November 9, 2004, on our review of interim financial information of WellPoint Health Networks Inc. (the "Company") for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2004 and 2003 and included in the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 is incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Very truly yours,
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Exhibit 15.2
 
November 30, 2004
 
Securities and Exchange Commission
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Commissioners:
 
We are aware that our report dated April 22, 2003 on our review of interim financial information of WellPoint Health Networks Inc. (the "Company") for the three month periods ended September 30, 2003 and 2002 and included in the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 is incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Very truly yours,
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4 (No. 333-110830) of WellPoint, Inc. (formerly Anthem, Inc.) of our report dated January 27, 2004 relating to the financial statements of WellPoint Health Networks Inc., which appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K of WellPoint, Inc. dated November 30, 2004.
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Los Angeles, California
November 30, 2004

news release
 
 
 
 
 November 30, 2004  Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ATH) and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. (NYSE: WLP) announced the completion of their merger today. The companies' agreement to merge was announced October 27, 2003. Under the terms of the agreement, WellPoint Health Networks stockholders will receive $23.80 in cash and one share of Anthem common stock for each WellPoint Health Networks share. The value of the transaction as of October 26, 2003, is approximately $16.5 billion. Anthem, Inc., the corporate parent, has been renamed WellPoint, Inc., and its common stock will begin trading under the WLP symbol on December 1, 2004.
Indianapolis, IN and Thousand Oaks, CA
 
"This merger creates the nation's leading health benefits company and provides us the opportunity to offer more value to our members, employers, physicians and hospitals," said Larry C. Glasscock, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We look forward to building upon our current focus on improving the health of the people we serve while delivering affordable products and distinctive service to our customers."
 
WellPoint, Inc. now serves approximately 28 million medical members through its Blue Cross or Blue Cross and Blue Shield operations in 13 states and its non-Blue branded operations in other states. The company has over 38,000 associates nationwide.
 
"This merger is a great strategic and geographic fit," said Leonard D. Schaeffer, chairman of WellPoint, Inc.'s board of directors. "It will benefit our members and bring together unmatched resources to drive innovation in health care."
 
WellPoint, Inc. expects its fourth quarter 2004 earnings, which will include only one month of earnings from WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to be $0.95 to $1.00 per share. This estimate differs from previous guidance provided by Anthem, Inc. on a stand alone basis due to merger related expenses and the repurchase of subsidiary debt. Earnings in 2005 are expected to reach $7.65 to $7.75 per share. Approximately $150 million in synergies are expected to be realized in 2005 and at least $250 million in annual synergies are expected to be realized thereafter. Additional details regarding financial expectations will be provided in January at a date to be announced.
The company also announced its board of directors. The board is composed of 19 directors from Anthem's and WellPoint Health Networks' boards:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contacts:
 
Investor Relations
Tami Durle, 317-488-6390
Angie McCabe, 805-557-6796
 
Media
Ed West, 317-488-6100
Barry Holt, 805-557-6789
About WellPoint, Inc.
 
WellPoint, Inc.'s mission is to improve the health of the people it serves and provides health care benefits and services to approximately 28 million medical members. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest publicly traded commercial health benefits company in terms of membership in the United States. WellPoint, Inc. is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through HealthLink and UNICARE. Additional information about WellPoint is available at.
www.wellpoint.com
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
This document contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, Inc., that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WellPoint Health"); trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. WellPoint, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's and WellPoint Health's various SEC reports, including but not limited to Anthem's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, WellPoint Health's Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 as amended by Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A and Anthem's and WellPoint Health's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Blue Cross of California (BCC) filed a Notice of Material Modification Regarding Proposed Change in Control of Ultimate Parent Company (the Notice of Material Modification). The Notice of Material Modification relates to the transaction described below.
 
BCC is a wholly owned subsidiary of WellPoint California Services, Inc., which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of WellPoint Health Networks Inc. (WellPoint). By filing the Notice of Material Modification, BCC seeks the approval of the Department of Managed Health Care (the Department) for the merger (the Merger) of WellPoint with and into an unaffiliated entity, Anthem Holding Corp. (AHC). AHC is an Indiana corporation and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Anthem, Inc. (Anthem), which is the ultimate parent company of a number of Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies that operate outside California.
 
Upon the closing of the Merger, WellPoint will be merged with and into AHC, with AHC as the surviving entity, and, effective as the closing of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of WellPoint will cease. As a result, this transaction will result in a change in control of BCC, which will become an indirect subsidiary of Anthem. Also at the time of the Merger, Anthem will be renamed "WellPoint, Inc." The transaction will not cause any other material changes to BCC or have a material effect on BCC's operations. BCC is an affiliate of BC Life & Health Insurance Company ("BC Life"), an insurer regulated by the California Department of Insurance ("CDI"). BCC also is an affiliate of Golden West Health Plan, Inc., a health care service plan regulated by the Department.
 
To demonstrate continued compliance with the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, California Health and Safety Code sections 1340 et seq. (the Knox-Keene Act) following implementation of the changes proposed in the Notice of Material Modification as amended, BCC executed and filed undertakings as a part of the Notice of Material Modification.
 
On July 23, 2004, the Department issued an Order of Approval (S-04-1287) for the Notice of Material Modification ("Approval Order") conditioned upon the Undertakings executed July 23, 2004 ("July 23 Undertakings"). On November 8, 2004, the CDI approved a Form A Statement Regarding the Acquisition of Control of or Merger with a Domestic Insurer filed by Anthem with respect to BC Life. BC Life also will become an indirect subsidiary of Anthem as a result of the Merger.
 
Due to changes in the information filed with this Department in the Notice of Material Modification arising from the November 8, 2004 approval by the CDI, BCC and the other parties hereto amend the July 23 Undertakings. These amended Undertakings shall supersede the July 23 Undertakings and the Approval Order shall be superseded by an updated Order of Approval conditioned upon these amended Undertakings, which shall be incorporated by reference into the updated Order of Approval. These undertakings include appropriate assurances regarding BCC's continuing fiscal soundness, health care service plan contracts, health care service plan operations, and other matters. These undertakings shall take effect immediately upon the closing of the Merger, except as otherwise specifically indicated. Anthem and AHC each also has executed these undertakings. By doing so, Anthem and AHC each agrees that it will not require, cause, or permit BCC to violate any of these undertakings.
 
References herein to "section" are to sections of the Knox-Keene Act and references to "Rule" refer to the regulations promulgated under the Knox-Keene Act which are set forth in title 28 of the California Code of Regulations.
 
BCC and Anthem undertake the following:
Undertaking 1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BCC will not declare or pay dividends, make other distributions of cash or property, or in any other way upstream any funds or property to Anthem or any of its affiliates (Affiliate Company Distributions), if such actions would do the following:
Undertaking 2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, with respect to Affiliate Company Distributions made in calendar years 2004, 2005 and 2006, BCC will not make any Affiliate Company Distributions in any such calendar year if they exceed 79% of BCC's operating income for the year prior to the calendar year of the Affiliate Company Distribution (the Limiting Percentage).
 
The Limiting Percentage is the average of the annual percentage that BCC dividends actually paid in each year from 2000 through 2003 bears to BCC's net income for the years prior to the years in which the dividends were paid (1999 through 2002), calculated as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The average annual percentage that dividends paid bears to prior year net income for the years 2000-2003 equals 79% of BCC's net income.
 
The Limiting Percentage, if applied to BCC's 2003 net income, would limit BCC to paying dividends of $362.9 million in 2004, leaving BCC at year-end 2004 (based on annualizing BCC results reported to the Department to date) with tangible net equity of $1.416 billion.
 
For purposes of this Undertaking 2, "Affiliate Company Distributions" shall not be deemed to refer to payments made under the terms of any administrative services agreement or tax sharing agreement which has been filed with and received prior approval from the Department.
 
BCC will not make any Affiliate Company Distributions if such actions would result in BCC failing to maintain Liquid Assets (as defined) in an amount that equals or exceeds 150% of BCC's average monthly Total Expenses (as defined) for the last two consecutive quarters for which financial statements have been filed with the Department immediately prior to the date on which BCC makes the Affiliate Company Distribution.
Undertaking 3.
 
For purposes of this undertaking, the following definitions apply:
 
 
 
BCC will not take any of the following actions without the Department's prior written approval:
Undertaking 4.
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem's affiliates include but are not limited to AHC.
 
In connection with each Quarterly Financial Report filed with the Department by BCC, BCC shall file with the Department, on a confidential basis, a schedule that reports the estimated range of incurred-but-not-reported claim liability at the end of each such quarter and the amount of incurred-but-not-reported claim liability reported on line 4 of Report #1  Part B: Liabilities and Net Worth, of the Quarterly Financial Report filed with the Department by BCC for such calendar quarter.
Undertaking 5.
 
The estimated range of incurred-but-not-reported claim liability at the end of each such quarter shall be prepared as follows:
 
 
 
 
In the event BCC's independent public accounting firm does not agree to provide the Department with this prepared or reviewed range, then BCC shall obtain, provide, and include as part of its required financial filings, an estimated range from an independent actuarial firm acceptable to the Department.
 
In connection with the making of this undertaking, BCC has been informed by the Department that the Department will grant confidential treatment, to the extent permitted by law, to the information filed pursuant to this Undertaking 5 and will provide BCC with appropriate prior notice of any judicial or other effort to compel the Department to disclose this confidential information in accordance with California Code of Regulations, title 28, section 1007.
 
BCC, Anthem, and AHC undertake that premiums payable by BCC subscribers and enrollees will not increase as a result of the Merger, and Anthem and AHC will provide a written commitment, addressed to the Director of the Department and executed by Anthem's and AHC's Chief Executive Officers, expressly to that effect. In order to demonstrate and assure compliance with this undertaking and commitment, which will remain in effect during the Merger Debt Period (as defined below), BCC, Anthem and AHC will provide annual written certifications to the Department on the anniversary date of the Merger that:
Undertaking 6.
 
(1) BCC's practices and methodologies for determining premium rates after the Merger have not varied from BCC's pre-Merger practices and methodologies;
 
(2) No debt rating factor relating to the indebtedness that Anthem has incurred to finance Anthem's cash requirements for the Merger has been included as part of such post-Merger practices and methodologies;
 
(3) BCC's practices and methodologies for determining products and benefit designs after the Merger have not varied from BCC's pre-Merger practices and methodologies;
 
(4) BCC's administrative expense ratio has not exceeded pre-Merger levels without reporting to the Department as provided in Undertaking 14 below.
 
(5) Anthem has paid all executive change in control severance payments and retention bonus payments made during the period of the certification by reason of the Merger as provided in Undertaking 1 above and, as represented in the Notice of Material Modification, the transaction expenses of the Merger have not been borne by BCC;
 
(6) Anthem had cash on hand immediately prior to the closing of the Merger that was adequate to discharge all obligations relating to the Merger and payable to officers and directors of Anthem and WellPoint, as required by Undertaking 1 above.
 
(7) BCC's dividends have not exceeded the limitations in Undertakings 2 and 3 above;
 
(8) BCC has filed with the Department each year an actuarial memorandum that certifies that no portion of the cost components of any premium rate charged for any individual or small group product offered in California by BCC includes a charge related to the financing of the Merger. BCC shall also certify annually to the Department (1) that no portion of the cost components of any rate or fee charged for any large group product offered in California by BCC includes a charge related to the financing of the Merger and (2) that no portions of the copayments, deductibles or similar features of any BCC products includes a charge related to the financing of the Merger and (3) in the event there were reductions in the level of reimbursement of BCC health care providers, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 1345(i), such reductions were not attributable to the payments described in (5) above.
 
The practices of BCC contemplated by this Undertaking 6 which are in effect at the date of these amended Undertakings do not vary from such practices of BCC in effect prior to the date of the Approval Order. For purposes of this Undertaking 6, increases in "premiums" shall be deemed to mean amounts, such as copayments, deductibles, and coinsurance amounts, expended by subscribers and enrollees to receive coverage.
 
The Department may, in addition to the activities described in Undertaking 23 below, audit or examine BCC and its books and records with respect to the foregoing certifications, to the extent deemed necessary or desirable at the discretion of the Director of the Department.
 
For purposes of these Undertakings, "Merger Debt Period" means the period beginning with the closing of the Merger and thereafter ending on the later of (1) the date three years following the closing of the Merger, or (2) the date when Anthem has made aggregate principal payments in respect of its or WellPoint's consolidated indebtedness equal to the aggregate principal amount of indebtedness incurred by Anthem to finance its cash requirements for the Merger ("Merger Related Indebtedness"), excluding, however, any principal payments that are "Refinancings" of Merger Related Indebtedness. A principal payment will be deemed to be a Refinancing of Merger Related Indebtedness if and to the extent that (x) Anthem borrows funds within thirty days before or after the date of the principal payment of Merger Related Indebtedness, and (y) the proceeds from the other borrowing are not specifically used for an identified purpose other than payment of Merger Related Indebtedness.
 
BCC shall renew, and shall not terminate, any group or individual health care service plan contract prior to the expiration of its term, except as otherwise expressly permitted under the Knox-Keene Act, including sections 1357.11, 1357.53, 1357.54, 1358.8, 1358.17, 1365, 1366.27, 1373.6 and 1399.810 and Rules 1300.65 and 1300.67.4 of the Knox-Keene Act.
Undertaking 7.
 
In addition, for a period of three (3) years following the effective date of the Merger, should BCC withdraw a health benefit plan from the market or cease to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services for new individual, small group, or large group health benefit plans in the State, if an enrollee then enrolled in an affected health benefit plan has a pre-existing condition and still has time remaining before she/he may receive treatment/therapy for that condition, BCC will waive the remaining time requirements for the pre-existing condition exclusion if the enrollee enrolls in another health benefit plan of BCC or a California affiliate of BCC within the time requirements for eligibility for that BCC health benefit plan, as provided in the Knox-Keene Act, or as otherwise offered by BCC, if BCC decides to offer a longer period for eligibility.
 
Should BCC cease to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services for individual, small group, or large group health benefit plans in this state, any affected health benefit plan shall remain in effect and shall not be cancelled or not renewed by BCC (except as expressly permitted under the Knox-Keene Act), until the first renewal date for that health benefit plan that occurs on or after the expiration of the 180 days notice required under the Knox-Keene Act or any such additional time as the applicable subscriber contract may specify.
 
If BCC ceases to write, issue, or administer new group or individual health benefit plans in California, affected former subscribers of BCC will be provided the opportunity to elect continued coverage under the most
 
nearly comparable health benefit plan (benefits, services, and terms) from BC Life or other California insurers affiliated with BC Life, with no underwriting as to the new health benefit plan for any health status related factors.
 
This Undertaking shall apply to other health care service plans doing business in California which are affiliates of BCC with regard to actions taken by such affiliated health care service plans in California.
 
An important premise of the approval of the Merger is that after the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of BCC arising from the Merger, BCC will continue its historic role in serving the California marketplace, and its same marketplace approach.
Undertaking 8.
 
Accordingly, after the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of BCC arising from the Merger, and provided that the Merger is consummated, BCC will maintain its efforts in the areas of Medi-Cal, Healthy Families Program, AIM (Access for Infants and Mothers), and MRMIP (California Major Risk Medical Insurance Program) on the same basis as prior to the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of BCC arising from the Merger, assuming the same market, economic, and other conditions that currently exist.
 
BCC advises the Department that the conditions it considers relevant under this Undertaking 8 include, but are not limited to: the reimbursement and compensation BCC receives; the scope and nature of services it must provide; the nature and adequacy of its provider network in any relevant service area; the structure, composition, and reimbursement payable to the health care providers supporting BCC's provision of products and services; and the substantive impact to the competitive environment resulting from changes to the legislative and regulatory framework applicable to its operations or the specified state sponsored programs.
 
An important premise of the approval of the Merger is that after the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of BCC arising from the Merger, BCC will continue its historic role in serving the California marketplace, and its same marketplace approach.
Undertaking 9.
 
Accordingly, after the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of BCC arising from the Merger, and provided that the Merger is consummated, BCC will maintain its efforts in offering and renewing individual and small group products on the same basis as prior to the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of BCC arising from the Merger, assuming the same market, economic and other conditions that currently exist.
 
BCC advises the Department that the conditions it considers relevant under this Undertaking 9 include, but are not limited to: the reimbursement and compensation BCC receives; the scope and nature of services it must provide; the nature and adequacy of its provider network in any relevant service area; the structure, composition and reimbursement payable to the health care providers supporting BCC's provision of products; and the substantive impact to the competitive environment resulting from changes to the legislative and regulatory framework applicable its operations or to individual or small group products.
 
After the Merger, BCC will maintain its organizational and administrative capacity, and unless the Department otherwise grants prior approval in writing, BCC will maintain the following non-exclusive list of functions in California:
Undertaking 10.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These aforementioned functions shall be conducted in conformity with California standards, including timeframes, as required by the Knox-Keene Act. BCC confirms to the Department that it intends to utilize the current leased headquarters building of WellPoint in Thousand Oaks, California, to occupy and serve as BCC's headquarters and to perform BCC health plan operations (recognizing that those operations are also performed at other California locations) and carry out other related activities.
 
BCC agrees that it shall not remove, require the removal, permit, or cause the removal of BCC's books and records, as defined in the Knox-Keene Act, from California before filing a Notice of Material Modification and receiving the written approval from the Department in accordance with the Knox-Keene Act. Further, BCC agrees, that notwithstanding any failure or omission on its part, or that of an affiliate, to maintain BCC records in California, BCC agrees that it shall return to California, as may be required by the Department, within the timeframe specified by the Department, any such BCC books and records that have been removed from California without the Department's express, written permission.
Undertaking 11.
 
After the effective date of any Order of Approval for the Merger, and provided the Merger is consummated, if the reimbursement rates or methods for reimbursement under its administrative services agreement(s) with WellPoint, Anthem or any of their affiliates are changed, or if BCC decides to amend, change, or terminate or replace its administrative services agreement(s) with WellPoint, Anthem, or any of their affiliates, BCC will file the changes with the Department in a Notice of Material Modification in accordance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Act, and not implement such changes until after the Department has issued an Order of Approval for such changes.
Undertaking 12.
 
After the effective date of any Order of Approval for the Merger, and provided the Merger is consummated, if BCC decides to amend, change, terminate or replace its tax sharing agreements, BCC will file any changes to those tax sharing agreements with the Department in a Notice of Material Modification in accordance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Act, and not implement such changes until after the Department has issued an Order of Approval for such changes.
Undertaking 13.
 
BCC represents to the Department that it anticipates that, for the Merger Debt Period, the percentage of BCC's administrative costs to premium revenues (as reported in Report #2, Lines 1, 4, 5, and 32, respectively, of the Quarterly Financial Report filed with the Department by BCC) will not exceed 13.31%, which reflects the average of the annual percentage that BCC's administrative costs bear to its premium revenues reported for the years 2001-2003, calculated as follows:
Undertaking 14.
 
 
 
 
The average annual percentage that administrative costs bear to total premium revenues for the years 2001-2003 equals 13.31%.
 
In the event BCC reasonably anticipates that its administrative costs will exceed 13.31% during this period, then BCC shall promptly report in writing to the Department the following:
 
 
 
 
 
BCC undertakes to implement the Patient Advocate Improvement Program (PAI Program), which is a comprehensive effort by BCC to bring demonstrable improvements to the quality of care delivered to BCC's members through increased dedication of financial and staff resources to BCC's quality improvement programs.
Undertaking 15.
 
Initial goals of the PAI Program are to improve any ratings of "one star" BCC has received in the Quality of Care Report Card 2003-2004 (Report Card) issued by the Office of the Patient Advocate, as well as to address any low scores received on HEDIS (Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set) ratings, through tools, approaches, and best practices in the areas of disease prevention, screening, health surveillance, intervention, and evaluation. Activities will be evidence-based and focus on best practices in medical care access and delivery. BCC will maintain and continually improve current initiatives underway in the areas of childhood immunizations, breast and cervical cancer screening, pre- natal and post-natal care, controlling blood pressure, asthma management, diabetes treatment, and coronary artery disease. The PAI Program will also include new health care initiatives around the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Recognizing that the quality of care delivered to BCC members is dependent upon the performance of BCC's participating professional practitioners, the PAI Program calls for expansion of BCC's Physician Quality and Incentive Programs (PQIP) to ensure that physician bonuses payable under those programs are utilized to appropriately provide incentive to physicians and professional practitioners to focus on the areas where BCC does not score the highest rating on the Report Card. The PAI Program will develop a method intended to properly provide incentive to health care professionals and professional medical organizations, such as medical groups and IPAs, that do not participate in BCC's pay for performance programs.
 
To that end, BCC will convene a special advisory committee comprised of members of its Physician Advisory Committee and an invited representative from the DMHC to review the PAI Program. On or before December 31, 2004, that advisory committee shall prepare a report to BCC and the Department evaluating at a minimum the following, with a view to improving BCC's scores on the Report Card:
 
 
 
 
BCC will promptly implement the recommendations of the advisory committee. If BCC in good faith believes that a recommendation of the advisory committee is not in the best interests of BCC's members, it shall disclose to the Department, within 30 days of receipt, the advisory committee's recommendations, the basis of that decision, along with its alternative improvement recommendations to accomplish the goals stated in this Undertaking 15.
 
BCC anticipates that its expenditures for the areas addressed by the PAI Program in 2004 will exceed such expenditures in 2003 by 73%. In addition to the expenditures contemplated by the preceding sentence, Anthem and AHC undertake to cause BCC to increase financial expenditures supporting BCC's quality improvement programs in California by at least fifty percent (50%) from current (2004) levels by the end of the Merger Debt Period. Quality improvement programs shall include, for example, disease management programs, programs advancing patient safety, programs promoting wellness, and efforts to improve scores on measures related to clinical quality. Quality improvement programs shall be designed and implemented in a manner that does not require any uncompensated services by providers participating in such programs.
 
In the event BCC's scores of "one star" on the Report Card are not improved in the next Report Card or it receives a new "one star" issued by the OPA in 2006, BCC undertakes to submit, within 90 days of the publication of the 2005-2006 Quality of Care Report Card, a written report to the Department prepared by an independent expert advisor acceptable to the Department which will make recommendations as to the actions BCC should take to ensure that the appropriate improvement is forthcoming. BCC will promptly implement the recommendations of the independent expert advisor and file a supplemental written report demonstrating its implementation of the corrective action strategies within six (6) months of the receipt of the independent expert advisor's recommendations.
 
In the event BCC has not implemented the correction action strategies recommended by the independent expert advisor, a rebuttable presumption shall arise that BCC has not complied with this Undertaking 15. BCC may rebut this presumption by demonstrating to the Department's reasonable satisfaction (i) that the development is not the result of any failure by BCC to take any recommended action, (ii) that the development is not related to the implementation of the Merger, or (iii) that, notwithstanding the development, BCC has in fact demonstrably improved quality of the type that was the subject of the recommendations.
 
BCC and Anthem undertake to implement the Investment in a Healthy California Program ("IHCP"), as set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. BCC advises the Department that it considers the scope of this program to apply to BCC's affiliate, Golden West Health Plan, and BC Life. Promptly following completion of the Merger, BCC and Anthem will meet and consult with the California Business, Transportation & Housing Agency ("BT&H"), Department and the California Department of Insurance to (i) discuss the appropriate type, scope and range of investments to be made under the IHCP, including community investments, (ii) secure advice and feedback regarding the selection of independent investment advisors as contemplated by Exhibit A and as acceptable to the BT&H and Department, (iii) discuss the composition of the advisory board contemplated by Exhibit A, including, if eligible, the inclusion of a representative of BT&H on such board, and (iv) discuss the development of an exemption process if sufficient qualifying assets cannot be identified by the end of the third year of the IHCP.
Undertaking 16.
 
BCC shall provide a written report to the Department at the end of the first, second, and third years of a three-year initiative under which the WellPoint Foundation has agreed to commit $5 million in each of three years (for a total of $15 million) to its Insuring Healthy Futures initiative aimed at increasing Medi-Cal and Healthy Families enrollment in California. The Insuring Healthy Futures initiative, which will support and provide outreach services for Healthy Families and Medi-Cal enrollment activities and will be conducted in full cooperation with the California Department of Health Services and the Managed Risk Medical Insurance Board, is aimed at providing tangible health care benefits to Californians, as opposed to the development of policy or the conduct of research.
Undertaking 17.
 
The WellPoint Foundation will work with the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the California Department of Health Services, and the Managed Risk Medical Insurance Board to facilitate securing of any available matching funds, and thereby maximize the benefits to Californians in structuring the program. The reports provided to the Department will specify the sums expended, will summarize the number of previously uninsured persons enrolled in Medi-Cal or Healthy Families as a result of the Insuring Healthy Futures initiative, and will make recommendations on further steps that can be taken to address the issue of the uninsured.
 
BCC acknowledges receipt of the Preliminary Report from the Department dated July 14, 2004, regarding the Department's Routine (Financial) Examination of BCC for the period ended September 30, 2003, together with the related supplemental review, and undertakes promptly to develop a corrective action plan to the Department's satisfaction to address the matters raised in the Preliminary Report and to adopt the recommendations contained therein (unless any such recommendations have already been addressed by these undertakings). The recommendations address such matters as the development by BCC of supplemental procedures for out-of-state claims, for reporting of tangible net equity, for reporting of claim expenses by category, for evaluating the impact of the Merger, for monitoring the financial condition of providers, for providing appropriate notices to terminated subscriber groups, and for possible closing of blocks of business.
Undertaking 18.
 
In regard to the topic of retroactive cancellation identified in the BCC Preliminary Report dated July 14, 2004, regarding the Department's Routine (Financial) Examination of BCC, BCC will file a semi-annual written report evidencing, to the satisfaction of the Department, that:
Undertaking 19.
 
 
 
 
Such reporting will commence no later than March 31, 2005, for the period ending December 31, 2004, and continue up to and including the period ending June 30, 2007. Each semi-annual report will include evidence that BCC has contacted, at a minimum, a sampling of affected subscribers, including individual subscribers under group contracts, to verify receipt of such notice.
 
After the effective date of any Order of Approval for the Merger and provided the Merger is consummated, and until BCC has adopted policies and procedures regarding the closing of blocks of business (as defined in section 1367.15 of the Knox-Keene Act) which are approved by the Department, if BCC decides to close a block of business (as defined in section 1367.15 of the Knox-Keene Act) of any plan contract, except for those enumerated in section 1367.15(j) of the Knox-Keene Act, BCC will file the proposed transaction with the
Undertaking 20.
 
Department in a Notice of Material Modification and not implement such change(s) until after the Department has issued an Order of Approval for such change(s). Notwithstanding the foregoing, after the effective date of any Order of Approval for the Merger and provided the Merger is consummated, if BCC decides to close a block of business (as defined in section 1367.15 of the Knox-Keene Act) of any plan contract, BCC shall provide the Department with 60 calendar days advance written notice of such decision.
 
BCC acknowledges receipt of the Department's July 7, 2004, notice of follow-up review of outstanding deficiencies identified in the February 18, 2003, Final Report of the Routine Medical Survey of BCC, and undertakes to provide to the Department all documentation required and to take all steps necessary to implement a corrective action plan to address the issues identified in the follow-up review.
Undertaking 21.
 
In addition, BCC undertakes to retain an independent expert advisor acceptable to the Department who will review BCC's compliance, from January 1, 2004, to the effective date of the Merger, regarding the topics of the nine (9) deficiencies listed in the Department's July 7, 2004, notice of follow-up review. The advisor will make written recommendations as to the actions, if any, BCC should take to ensure that BCC is in compliance with the Knox-Keene Act regarding those topics. BCC will submit to the Department a copy of the independent advisor's report, within ten (10) days of BCC's receipt from the advisor. BCC will promptly implement the recommendations of the advisor unless it in good faith believes that a recommendation is erroneous or not in the best interests of BCC's members (in which case BCC will advise the Department of what it in good faith considers appropriate alternative measures. BCC will file a supplemental report with the Department within two (2) months of receipt of the independent expert advisor's recommendations, advising the Department of BCC's actions with regard to the advisor's recommendations.
 
Further, BCC acknowledges receipt of the Department's 2004 Preliminary Report of the non-routine medical survey of Blue Cross of California, Behavioral Health Division, concerning the survey conducted December 4 and 5, 2003. BCC undertakes to develop a corrective action plan, to the Department's satisfaction, to address the deficiencies identified in the Preliminary Report and to adopt the recommendations contained therein. The deficiencies are listed under Deficiency # 1 (Grievances, Denials, Appeals, and Independent Medical Review concerning AB 88 Mental Health Parity issues) and Deficiency # 2 (Emergency Service Claims issues concerning AB 88 Mental Health Parity Issues).
 
During the Merger Debt Period, BCC shall file annually with the Department a report demonstrating compliance with each of the undertakings set forth herein and describing what it believes to be the benefits to Californians that have ensued from the Merger. Such reports are in addition to, and do not supersede, any other reports the Director may require pursuant to the Knox-Keene Act, including reports related to a financial examination or a medical survey conducted pursuant to sections 1382 and 1384 of the Knox-Keene Act.
Undertaking 22.
 
BCC undertakes to promptly pay for the costs arising from activities of the Department, including any necessary out-of-state travel, verifying and auditing compliance by BCC with each of the undertakings set forth herein. Such activity will be conducted, at the Department's discretion, in addition to any of the surveys, audits, examinations, or inquiries required or permissible under the Knox-Keene Act.
Undertaking 23.
 
BCC acknowledges and recognizes the concerns expressed by members of the public in the course of the Department's consideration of this Notice of Material Modification and acknowledges the grounds for disciplinary action by the Director of the Department set forth in section 1386 of the Knox-Keene Act, specifically sections 1386(b)(7) and (9) of the Knox-Keene Act, in the event that inappropriate actions or conduct by BCC were to occur.
Undertaking 24.
 
BCC and Anthem undertake to promptly provide the Department with copies of the written agreements of the executive officers of WellPoint and BCC referred to in correspondence to the Department dated July 23, 2004, and which correspondence shall be deemed to be incorporated herein.
Undertaking 25.
 
BCC, WellPoint, and Anthem undertake to provide to the Department, within two (2) business days following the execution of these amended Undertakings, amended undertakings applicable to BCC's specialized health care service plan affiliate, Golden West Health Plan, Inc. (GWHP). Such amended undertakings shall reflect all of the terms and conditions contained in these undertakings that have any applicability to GWHP. BCC, WellPoint, and Anthem undertake to cause GWHP to enter into such amended undertakings.
Undertaking 26.
 
The undertakings set forth herein shall be enforceable to the fullest extent of the authority and power of the Director of the Department under the provisions of the Knox-Keene Act, including all civil, criminal, and administrative remedies (such as Cease and Desist Orders, freezing enrollment, and assessment of fines and penalties). The enforcement remedies enumerated in this Undertaking 27 are not exclusive and may be sought and employed in any combination deemed advisable by the Director of the Department to enforce these undertakings.
Undertaking 27.
 
The undertakings set forth herein shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Undertaking 28.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the undertakings executed above, BCC reasserts and reaffirms each and every undertaking in existence prior to the execution of this document, and agrees to abide by and conform to each and every prohibition and condition, unless specifically superseded by the undertakings executed below.
Undertaking 29.
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Summary
 
Blue Cross of California (BCC) agrees to commit $100 million or 2% of BCC's total investment portfolio in funding for a new investment program (the IHCP Program) to increase the level of capital in safe and sound investments providing fair returns to investors and social benefits to underserved communities. Modeled after a successful collaboration between the health/insurance industry, community development organizations, community advocates, and State regulators, this 20-year commitment by BCC, effective upon completion of the WellPoint/Anthem merger, is expected to strengthen access to health care resources to low-income urban and rural underserved Californians.
 
IHCP Program Investments
 
The IHCP Program will provide a means to identify and foster investment opportunities that currently are underinvested in by traditional sources of investment capital. Investments under the IHCP Program (IHCP Investments) will increase capital and funding to low-income urban and rural underserved California communities, to address health care infrastructure that makes health care resources more accessible and improves the quality of care.
 
The IHCP will, in addition to the substantial direct investments by BCC, provide leadership in increasing the level of health plan capital in safe and sound investments that provide fair returns to investors and social benefits to underserved communities. A critical requirement is that IHCP Investments generate a competitive rate of return and that the safety and preservation of capital invested is maintained for the benefit of health plan members. Accordingly, IHCP Investments must be consistent with applicable legal requirements and prudent investment practices for Knox-Keene health care service plans, including the following:
 
 
 
 
Target Amount of IHCP Investments
 
Following the CalPERS model of setting a goal of 2% of its investment portfolio for investments in California's underserved communities, BCC will, subject to the availability of qualified IHCP Investments, make IHCP Investments which in the aggregate equal two percent of the value of the investment portfolio of BCC, as shown on its annual financial statements filed with the DMHC. The initial commitment by BCC is $100 million, which is expected to be phased in as IHCP Investments are identified. The commitment to make such investments will expire after 20 years.
 
Based on an average maturity of an investment equal to five to six years, and given that BCC is expected to grow over time, BCC anticipates that several hundred million dollars of IHCP Investments will be made over the 20-year life of the program.
Implementation and Timetable
 
Appropriate IHCP Investments will be identified by an advisory committee comprised of representatives or designees of (1) clinics and other health care providers that serve low income or uninsured urban Californians, (2) clinics and other health care providers that serve low income or uninsured rural Californians, (3) if eligible, the California Department of Health Services and the Managed Risk Medical Insurance Board, and (4) charitable entities that support such clinics and other providers, who will be assisted by qualified and experienced independent investment advisors. The members of the advisory committee would be designated from time to time by BCC, in consultation with the DMHC. The independent investment advisors would be firms retained and compensated by BCC and acceptable to the DMHC.
 
DMHC anticipates being in a position to consider specific IHCP Investments beginning by the first quarter of 2005, and it expects to phase in IHCP Investments as they are identified with the goal of having the initial $100 million commitment fully invested by the end of the third year of the IHCP. In furtherance of those objectives, promptly following the merger of WellPoint and Anthem, the IHCP advisory committee would be established and, in consultation with the independent investment advisors, formulate a plan for carrying out its responsibilities, develop appropriate application procedures, guidelines and policies for the program, and establish a more detailed timetable for the IHCP. BCC will work in cooperation with the DMHC to schedule an organizational meeting to be held within 60 days after the closing of the merger, for the purpose of arranging the administrative details to establish the IHCP advisory committee, identify independent investment advisors, and otherwise take actions and adopt policies, procedures and guidelines to implement the IHCP.
 
BCC will provide regular reports to the IHC Program advisory committee and, in connection with each annual financial statement filed with the DMHC, will provide the DMHC with reports on progress made toward investing in IHCP Investments.
 
In the event that the DMHC determines to establish a program like the IHCP in which all California health plans and health insurers could participate, BCC will cooperate in establishing the new program and in conforming the IHCP to, and participating in, the newly established industry-wide program.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Golden West Health Plan, Inc. (Golden West) filed a Notice of Material Modification Regarding Proposed Change in Control of Ultimate Parent Company (the Notice of Material Modification). The Notice of Material Modification relates to the transaction described below.
 
Golden West is a wholly owned subsidiary of WellPoint California Services, Inc., which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of WellPoint Health Networks Inc. (WellPoint). By filing the Notice of Material Modification, Golden West seeks the approval of the Department of Managed Health Care (the Department) for the merger (the Merger) of WellPoint with and into an unaffiliated entity, Anthem Holding Corp. (AHC). AHC is an Indiana corporation and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Anthem, Inc. (Anthem), which is the ultimate parent company of a number of Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies that operate outside California.
 
Upon the closing of the Merger, WellPoint will be merged with and into AHC, with AHC as the surviving entity, and, effective as of the closing of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of WellPoint will cease. As a result, this transaction will result in a change in control of Golden West, which will become an indirect subsidiary of Anthem. Also, at the time of the Merger, Anthem will be renamed "WellPoint, Inc." The transaction will not cause any other material changes to Golden West or have a material effect on Golden West's operations. Golden West is an affiliate of Blue Cross of California ("BCC"), a health care service plan regulated by the Department. Golden West is also an affiliate of BC Life & Health Insurance Company ("BC Life"), an insurer regulated by the California Department of Insurance ("CDI").
 
To demonstrate continued compliance with the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, California Health and Safety Code sections 1340 et seq. (the Knox-Keene Act) following implementation of the changes proposed in the Notice of Material Modification as amended, Golden West executed and filed undertakings as a part of the Notice of Material Modification.
 
On August 3, 2004, the Department issued an Order of Approval (S-04-1291) for the Notice of Material Modification ("Approval Order") conditioned upon the Undertakings executed August 2, 2004 ("August 2 Undertakings"). On November 8, 2004, the CDI approved the Form A Statement Regarding the Acquisition of Control of or Merger with a Domestic Insurer filed by Anthem with respect to BC Life. BC Life also will become an indirect subsidiary of Anthem as a result of the Merger.
 
Due to changes in the information filed with this Department in the Notice of Material Modification arising from the November 8, 2004 approval by the CDI, Golden West and the other parties hereto amend the August 2 Undertakings. These amended Undertakings shall supersede the August 2 Undertakings and the Approval Order shall be superseded by an updated Order of Approval conditioned upon these amended Undertakings, which shall be incorporated by reference into the updated Order of Approval. These undertakings include appropriate assurances regarding Golden West's continuing fiscal soundness, health care service plan contracts, health care service plan operations, and other matters. These undertakings shall take effect immediately upon the closing of the Merger, except as otherwise specifically indicated. Anthem and AHC each also has executed these undertakings. By doing so, Anthem and AHC each agrees that it will not require, cause or permit Golden West to violate any of these undertakings.
 
References to "section" are to sections of the Knox-Keene Act and references to "Rule" refer to the regulations promulgated under the Knox-Keene Act which are set forth in title 28 of the California Code of Regulations.
Golden West and Anthem undertake the following:
Undertaking 1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Golden West will not declare or pay dividends, make other distributions of cash or property, or in any other way upstream any funds or property to Anthem or any of its affiliates (Affiliate Company Distributions) if such actions would do the following:
Undertaking 2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this undertaking, references in section 1374.64 of the Knox-Keene Act to subdivisions (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of Rule 1300.76 of the Knox-Keene Act shall be construed as references to subdivisions (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of Rule 1300.76 of the Knox-Keene Act.
 
Additionally, with respect to Affiliate Company Distributions made in calendar years 2004, 2005 and 2006, Golden West will not make any Affiliate Company Distributions in any such calendar year if they exceed 79% of Golden West's net income for the year prior to the calendar year of the Affiliate Company Distribution.
 
For purposes of this undertaking 2, "Affiliate Company Distributions" shall not be deemed to refer to payments made under the terms of any administrative services agreement or tax sharing agreement which has been filed with and received prior approval from the Department.
 
Golden West will not make any Affiliate Company Distributions if such actions would result in Golden West failing to maintain Liquid Assets (as defined) in an amount that equals or exceeds 150% of Golden West's average monthly Total Expenses (as defined) for the last two consecutive quarters for which financial statements have been filed with the Department immediately prior to the date on which Golden West makes the Affiliated Company Distribution.
Undertaking 3.
 
For purposes of this undertaking, the following definitions apply:
 
 
 
Golden West will not take any of the following actions without the Department's prior written approval:
Undertaking 4.
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem's affiliates include but are not limited to AHC.
 
Golden West, Anthem, and AHC undertake that premiums payable by Golden West subscribers and enrollees will not increase as a result of the Merger, and Anthem and AHC will provide a written commitment, addressed to the Director of the Department and executed by Anthem's and AHC's Chief Executive Officers, expressly to that effect. In order to demonstrate and assure compliance with this undertaking and commitment, which will remain in effect during the Merger Debt Period (as defined below), Golden West, Anthem and AHC will provide annual written certifications to the Department on the anniversary date of the Merger that:
Undertaking 5.
 
(1) Golden West's practices and methodologies for determining premium rates after the Merger have not varied from Golden West's pre-Merger practices and methodologies;
 
(2) No debt rating factor relating to the indebtedness that Anthem has incurred to finance Anthem's cash requirements for the Merger has been included as part of such post-Merger practices and methodologies;
 
(3) Golden West's practices and methodologies for determining products and benefit designs after the Merger have not varied from Golden West's pre-Merger practices and methodologies;
 
(4) Anthem has paid all executive change in control severance payments and retention bonus payments made during the period of the certification by reason of the Merger as provided in Undertaking 1 above and, as represented in the Notice of Material Modification, the transaction expenses of the Merger have not been borne by Golden West;
 
(5) Anthem had cash on hand immediately prior to the closing of the Merger that was adequate to discharge all obligations relating to the Merger and payable to officers and directors of Anthem and WellPoint, as required by Undertaking 1 above;
 
(6) Golden West's dividends have not exceeded the limitations in Undertakings 2 and 3 above; and
 
(7) Golden West has filed with the Department each year an actuarial memorandum that certifies that no portion of the cost components of any premium rate charged for any individual or small group product offered in California by Golden West includes a charge related to the financing of the Merger. Golden West shall also certify annually to the Department (1) that no portion of the cost components of any rate or fee charged for any large group product offered in California by Golden West includes a charge related to the financing of the Merger, (2) that no portions of the copayments, deductibles or similar features of any Golden West products includes a charge related to the financing of the Merger and (3) in the event there were reductions in the level of reimbursement of Golden West health care providers, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 1345(i), such reductions were not attributable to the payments described in (4) above.
 
The practices of Golden West contemplated by this Undertaking 5 which are in effect at the date of these amended Undertakings do not vary from such practices of Golden West in effect prior to the date of the Approval Order. For purposes of this Undertaking 5, increases in "premiums" shall be deemed to mean amounts, such as copayments, deductibles and coinsurance amounts, expended by subscribers and enrollees to receive coverage.
 
The Department may, in addition to the activities described in Undertaking 14 below, audit or examine Golden West and its books and records with respect to the foregoing certifications, to the extent deemed necessary or desirable at the discretion of the Director of the Department.
 
For purposes of these Undertakings, "Merger Debt Period" means the period beginning with the closing of the Merger and thereafter ending on the later of (1) the date three years following the closing of the Merger, or (2) the date when Anthem has made all aggregate principal payments in respect of its or WellPoint's consolidated indebtedness equal to the aggregate principal amount of indebtedness incurred by Anthem to finance its cash requirements for the Merger ("Merger Related Indebtedness"), excluding, however, any principal payments that are "Refinancings" of Merger Related Indebtedness. A principal payment will be deemed to be a Refinancing of Merger Related Indebtedness if and to the extent that (x) Anthem borrows funds within thirty days before or after the date of the principal payment of Merger Related Indebtedness, and (y) the proceeds from the other borrowing are not specifically used for an identified purpose other than payment of Merger Related Indebtedness.
 
Golden West shall renew and shall not terminate any group or individual health care service plan contract prior to the expiration of its term, except as otherwise expressly permitted under the Knox-Keene Act, including sections 1357.11, 1357.53, 1357.54, 1358.8, 1358.17,1365, 1366.27, 1373.6 and 1399.810 and Rules 1300.65 and 1300.67.4 of the Knox-Keene Act.
Undertaking 6.
 
In addition, for a period of three (3) years following the effective date of the Merger, should Golden West withdraw a health benefit plan from the market or cease to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services for new individual, small group, or large group health benefit plans in the State, if an enrollee then enrolled in an affected health benefit plan has a pre-existing condition and still has time remaining before s/he may receive treatment/therapy for that condition, Golden West will waive the remaining time requirements for the pre-existing condition exclusion if the enrollee enrolls in another Golden West health benefit plan, or a
 
California affiliate of Golden West, within the time requirements for eligibility for that Golden West health benefit plan, as provided in the Knox-Keene Act or as otherwise offered by Golden West if Golden West decides to offer a longer period for eligibility.
 
Should Golden West cease to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services for individual, small group, or large group health benefit plans in this state, any affected health benefit plan shall remain in effect and shall not be cancelled or not renewed by Golden West (except as expressly permitted under the Knox-Keene Act), until the first renewal date for that health benefit plan that occurs on or after the expiration of the 180 days notice required under the Knox-Keene Act or any such additional time as the applicable subscriber contract may specify.
 
If Golden West ceases to write, issue, or administer new group or individual health benefit plans in California, affected former subscribers of Golden West will be provided the opportunity to elect continued coverage under the most nearly comparable health benefit plan (benefits, services, and terms) from BCC, BC Life or other California insurers affiliated with BC Life, with no underwriting as to the new health benefit plan for any health status related factors.
 
This Undertaking shall apply to other health care service plans doing business in California which are affiliates of Golden West with regard to actions taken by such affiliated health care service plans in California.
 
An important premise of the approval of the Merger is that after the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of Golden West arising from the Merger, and provided that the Merger is consummated, Golden West will continue its historic role in serving the California marketplace, and its same marketplace approach.
Undertaking 7.
 
Accordingly, after the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of Golden West arising from the Merger, and provided that the Merger is consummated, Golden West will maintain its efforts in offering and renewing individual and small group products on the same basis as prior to the effective date of an Order of Approval for the change of control of Golden West arising from Merger, assuming the same market, economic and other conditions that currently exist.
 
Golden West advises the Department that the conditions it considers relevant under this Undertaking 7 include, but are not limited to: the reimbursement and compensation Golden West receives; the scope and nature of services it must provide; the nature and adequacy of its provider network in any relevant service area; the structure, composition and reimbursement payable to the health care providers supporting Golden West's provision of products and services; and the substantive impact to the competitive environment resulting from changes in the legislative and regulatory framework applicable its operations or to individual or small group products.
 
After the Merger, Golden West will maintain its organizational and administrative capacity, and unless the Department otherwise grants prior approval in writing, Golden West will maintain the following non-exclusive list of functions in California:
Undertaking 8.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These aforementioned functions shall be conducted in conformance with California standards, including timeframes, as required by the Knox-Keene Act. Golden West confirms to the Department that it intends to utilize the current leased premises in Camarillo, California, to occupy and serve as Golden West's headquarters and to perform Golden West health plan operations (recognizing that those operations are also performed at other California locations) and carry out other related activities.
 
Golden West agrees that it shall not remove, require the removal, permit, or cause the removal of Golden West's books and records, as defined in the Knox-Keene Act, from California before filing a Notice of Material Modification and receiving the written approval from the Department in accordance with the Knox-Keene Act. Further, Golden West agrees, that notwithstanding any failure or omission on its part, or that of an affiliate, to maintain Golden West records in California, Golden West agrees that it shall return to California, as may be required by the Department, within the timeframe specified by the Department, any such Golden West books and records that have been removed from California without the Department's express, written permission.
Undertaking 9.
 
After the effective date of any Order of Approval for the Merger, and provided the Merger is consummated, if the reimbursement rates or methods for reimbursement under its administrative services agreement(s) with WellPoint, Anthem or any of their affiliates are changed, or if Golden West decides to amend, change, terminate or replace its administrative services agreement(s) with WellPoint, Anthem or any of their affiliates, Golden West will file the changes with the Department in a Notice of Material Modification in accordance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Act and not implement such changes until after the Department has issued an Order of Approval for such changes.
Undertaking 10.
 
After the effective date of any Order of Approval for the Merger, and provided the Merger is consummated, if Golden West decides to amend, change, terminate or replace its tax sharing agreements, Golden West will file any changes to those tax sharing agreements with the Department in a Notice of Material Modification in accordance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Act, and not implement such changes until after the Department has issued an Order of Approval for such changes.
Undertaking 11.
 
Golden West undertakes to participate in the Investment in a Healthy California Program, as described in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Undertaking 12.
 
During the Merger Debt Period, Golden West shall file annually with the Department a report demonstrating compliance with each of the undertakings set forth herein and describing what it believes to be the benefits to Californians that have ensued from the Merger. Such reports are in addition to, and do not supersede, any other reports the Director may require pursuant to the Knox-Keene Act, including reports related to a financial examination or a medical survey conducted pursuant to sections 1382 and 1384 of the Knox-Keene Act.
Undertaking 13.
 
Golden West undertakes to promptly pay for the costs arising from the activities of the Department, including any necessary out-of-state travel, in verifying and auditing compliance by Golden West with each of the undertakings set forth herein. Such activity will be conducted, at the Department's discretion, in addition to any of the surveys, audits, examinations or inquiries required or permissible under the Knox-Keene Act.
Undertaking 14.
 
The undertakings set forth herein shall be enforceable to the fullest extent of the authority and power of the Director of the Department under the provisions of the Knox-Keene Act including all civil, criminal and administrative remedies (such as Cease and Desist orders, freezing enrollment, and assessment of fines and penalties). The enforcement remedies enumerated in this Undertaking 15 are not exclusive and may be sought and employed in any combination deemed advisable by the Director of the Department to enforce these undertakings.
Undertaking 15.
 
Golden West acknowledges and recognizes the concerns expressed by members of the public in the course of the Department's consideration of this Notice of Material Modification and the Notice of Material Modification of BCC and acknowledges the grounds for disciplinary action by the Director of the Department set forth in Section 1386 of the Knox-Keene Act, specifically Sections 1386(b)(7) and (9) of the Knox-Keene Act, in the event that inappropriate actions or conduct by Golden West were to occur.
Undertaking 16.
 
Golden West and Anthem undertake to promptly provide the Department with copies of the written agreement of the executive officers of WellPoint and Golden West referred to in correspondence to the Department dated July 23, 2004 and which correspondence shall be deemed to be incorporated herein by reference.
Undertaking 17.
 
If specifically requested to do so by the Department, Golden West undertakes to provide to the Department reports regarding Golden West's incurred-but-not-reported claim liabilities on the same basis as such reports are described in BCC's undertakings to the Department dated November 23, 2004.
Undertaking 18.
 
The undertakings set forth herein shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Undertaking 19.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the undertakings executed above, Golden West reasserts and reaffirms each and every undertaking in existence prior to the execution of this document, and agrees to abide by and conform to each and every prohibition and condition, unless specifically superseded by the undertakings executed below.
Undertaking 20.
 
 


