FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20041215092005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
On December 6, 2004, WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Purchase Agreement with the initial purchasers party thereto (the "Initial Purchasers"), to sell $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.750% Notes due 2007 (the "2007 Notes"), $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.250% Notes due 2009 (the "2009 Notes"), $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.000% Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.950% Notes due 2034 (the "2034 Notes", and collectively, the "Notes") in a private placement in reliance on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Notes are expected to be resold by the Initial Purchasers to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or to non-U.S. persons that occur outside of the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
The aggregate net proceeds received by the Company from the sale of the Notes were $1,583,727,000, after deducting the discount for the Initial Purchasers. The Notes are the Company's unsecured and unsubordinated obligations and will rank equally with all of its current and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, including any borrowings under its senior credit facilities, and senior to all of its future subordinated debt. The Notes will effectively rank junior to any of the Company's future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Notes will not be guaranteed by any of the Company's subsidiaries and will therefore be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries. The Company's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligations to pay, or make funds available for the payment of, any amounts due on the Notes. The Indenture, defined below, does not prohibit or limit the incurrence of indebtedness and other liabilities by the Company or its subsidiaries.
 
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated December 9, 2004 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.750% per annum for the 2007 Notes, 4.250% per annum for the 2009 Notes, 5.000% per annum for the 2014 Notes and 5.950% per annum for the 2034 Notes. For the 2007 Notes, interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 14 and December 14 of each year, beginning on June 14, 2005. For the 2009 Notes, the 2014 Notes and the 2034 Notes, interest is payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2005. Each interest payment will be made to the persons who are registered holders of the notes on the immediately preceding June 1 and December 1, respectively.
 
The Notes may be declared immediately due and payable by the trustee or the holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Notes of the affected series if an event of default occurs under the Indenture and has not been cured. An event of default generally means that the Company (1) fails to pay the principal or any premium on a Note on its due date, (2) does not pay interest on a Note within 30 days of its due date, (3) remains in breach of any other term of the Indenture for 60 days after its receipt of written notice of such failure or (4) files for bankruptcy or certain other events in bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization occurs.
The 2007 Notes will mature on December 14, 2007, the 2009 Notes will mature on December 15, 2009, the 2014 Notes will mature on December 15, 2014, and the 2034 Notes will mature on December 15, 2034. However, the Company, at its option, may redeem the 2009 Notes, the 2014 Notes and the 2034 Notes, at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the treasury rate, as defined in the Indenture, plus 12.5 basis points in the case of the 2009 Notes, 15 basis points in the case of the 2014 Notes and 20 basis points in the case of the 2034 Notes, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
 
The Initial Purchasers and certain of their affiliates have provided from time to time, and may provide in the future, investment and commercial banking and financial advisory services to the Company and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business, for which they have received and may continue to receive customary fees and commissions. One of the Company's joint book-running managers acted as financial advisor to the Company in connection with its demutualization and lead managing underwriter of related concurrent offerings, acted as its financial advisor in its acquisition of Trigon Healthcare, Inc. and in connection with its merger with WellPoint Health Networks, Inc. Similarly, each of the four joint book-running managers and/or certain of their affiliates are participants in the Company's bridge loan agreement and the senior credit facilities. An affiliate of one of the Initial Purchasers is the trustee under the Indenture for the notes. In addition, from time to time, as a result of market making activities, the Initial Purchasers may own debt securities issued by us or our affiliates.
 
This announcement is not an offer to sell the Notes. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and the foregoing may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or the availability of an applicable exemption from registration. The Registration Rights Agreement entered into between the Company and the Initial Purchasers provides the Company will prepare and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, within 90 days after the closing of the sale of the Notes, a registration statement under the Securities Act for the purpose of registering the Notes for resale.
 
The foregoing description of the private placement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement entered into in connection with the private placement, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 14, 2004
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
Execution Copy
 
 
 
                                Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
NOTE: This Table of Contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of December 9, 2004, between WELLPOINT, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Indiana (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 120 Monument Circle, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46204, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
 
 
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured notes, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series under this Indenture.
 
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
 
N, T, T I W:
OW
HEREFORE
HIS
NDENTURE
ITNESSETH
 
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 101.
Definitions.
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
 
(2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
 
(3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation;
 
(4) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article," a "Section" or a Subsection refers to an Article, a Section or a Subsection, as the case may be, of this Indenture; and
 
(5) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section, Subsection or other subdivision.
 
"144A Global Security" means one or more Global Securities substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Security Legend and the Private Placement Legend that is deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depository or its nominee which, in the aggregate, shall be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
 
"Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
 
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
"Agent" means any Security Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar.
 
"Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security, the rules and procedures of the Depository, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
 
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
 
"Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.
 
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors or such authorized persons or duly appointed person thereof and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
"Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking S.A. and any successor thereto.
 
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
 
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
 
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee or the Security Registrar, as the case may be, at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office as of the date of this instrument is located at 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60630, except that with respect to presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange or for service of notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of Securities and this Indenture, such term shall mean the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted, which office at the date of this instrument is located at 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York 10286; Attention: Corporate Trust Division - Corporate Finance Unit, or, in the case of any of such offices, such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company.
 
"corporation" means a corporation, association, company, joint-stock company or business (including Delaware statutory) trust.
 
"Covenant Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1303.
 
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
 
"Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1302.
 
"Definitive Security" means a certificated Security registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 203 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, except that such Security shall not bear the Global Security Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto.
 
"Depository" means, with respect to Securities of any series issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under
 
the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for such Securities as contemplated by Section 203.
 
"Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system, and any successor thereto.
 
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
 
"Exchange Offer" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
"Exchange Offer Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
"Exchange Securities" means the Securities issued in the Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 203(f) hereof.
 
"Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 104.
 
"Global Securities" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Securities and the Unrestricted Global Securities, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, as appropriate, that bears the Global Security Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository, issued in accordance with Section 201 or 203 of this Indenture.
 
"Global Security Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 203(g)(ii), which is required to be placed on all Global Securities issued under this Indenture.
 
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
 
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301.
 
"Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Security through a Participant.
 
"Initial Purchasers" means Banc of America Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC.
 
"Institutional Accredited Investor" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who are not also QIBs.
 
"interest", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
 
"Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
 
"Investment Company Act" means the Investment Company Act of 1940 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
 
"Letter of Transmittal" means the Letter of Transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Securities for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
 
"Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
 
"Non-U.S. Person" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person.
 
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(4).
 
"Officer" means the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal and Administrative Officer, a President, Vice President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company.
 
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Chief Legal and Administrative Officer, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee. One of the officers signing an Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 1004 shall be the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company.
 
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of legal counsel, who may be an employee of, or outside counsel for, the Company, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee.
 
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
 
"Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, :
except
 
(1) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(2) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; , , that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
provided
however
 
(3) Securities as to which Defeasance has been effected pursuant to Section 1302; and
 
(4) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
 
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof which would be due and payable as of such date upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 502, (B) if, as of such date, the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of a Security is not determinable, the principal amount of such Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount as specified or determined as contemplated by Section 301, (C) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of such date in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 301, of the principal amount of such Security (or, in the case of a Security described in Clause (A) or (B) above, of the amount determined as provided in such Clause), and (D) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities of which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge are so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to
provided
however
 
such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
 
"Participant" means, with respect to the Depository, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depository, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
 
"Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
 
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision of a government or governmental agency.
 
"Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 301.
 
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security, and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
 
"Private Placement Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 207(g)(i) to be placed on all Securities issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
 
"QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as that term is defined in Rule 144A.
 
"Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
 
"Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
 
"Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement for the Securities dated as of December , 2004 by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, or any other Registration Rights Agreement executed in connection with the issuance of Securities after the date hereof, as the case may be.
    
 
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
 
"Regulation S" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
"Regulation S Global Security" means one or more Global Securities substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Security Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depository or its nominee, which, in the aggregate, shall be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities sold in reliance on Rules 903 and 904 of Regulation S.
 
"Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee within the Corporate Trust Division  Corporate Finance Unit of the Trustee (or any successor unit or department of the Trustee) located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee who has direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and, for the purposes of Section 601(3)(B) and Section 602 (for the purposes of Section 315(b) of the Trust Indenture Act), shall also include any officer of the Trustee to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
 
"Restricted Definitive Security" means a Definitive Security bearing the Private Placement Legend.
 
"Restricted Global Security" means a Global Security bearing the Private Placement Legend.
 
"Restricted Period" means the 40-day restricted period as defined in Regulation S.
 
"Rule 144" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
"Rule 144A" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
"Rule 903" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
"Rule 904" means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
"Securities" means the Securities described in the first recital hereto and issued on the date hereof. For all purposes of this Indenture, the term "Securities" shall include the Securities initially issued on the date hereof, any Exchange Securities to be issued and exchanged for any Securities pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and this Indenture and any other Securities issued after the date hereof under this Indenture.
 
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
 
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
 
"Shelf Registration Statement" means the registration statement filed by the Company in connection with the offer and sale of Securities pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
 
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
 
"Subsidiary" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
 
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
provided
however
 
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
 
"Unrestricted Definitive Security" means one or more Definitive Securities that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
"Unrestricted Global Security" means a permanent Global Security that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
"U.S. Government Obligation" has the meaning specified in Section 1304.
 
"U.S. Person" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(k) under the Securities Act.
 
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
 
SECTION 102.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
 
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
 
Every certificate (other than a certificate pursuant to Section 314(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act) or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include,
 
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
 
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
SECTION 103.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
 
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
 
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
 
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
 
SECTION 104.
Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing, and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
 
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
 
The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities of such series, , , that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the
provided
however
 
relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; , , that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
provided
however
 
The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 502, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 507(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 512, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; , , that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
provided
however
 
With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which sets such record dates may designate any day as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; , , that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as
provided
however
 
provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.
 
Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.
 
SECTION 105.
Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
 
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or
 
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
 
SECTION 106.
Notice to Holders, Waiver.
 
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
 
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
 
SECTION 107.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
 
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act which is required under such Act or deemed to be a part of and govern this Indenture, such required or deemed provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
 
SECTION 108.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
 
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
SECTION 109.
Successors and Assigns.
 
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
SECTION 110.
Separability Clause.
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
SECTION 111.
Benefits of Indenture.
 
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
 
SECTION 112.
Governing Law.
 
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (including without limitation Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law or any successor to such statute). The Trustee and the Company agree to submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any United States federal or state court located in the Borough of Manhattan, in The City of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Indenture or the Securities.
 
The Trustee and the Company hereby knowingly, voluntarily and intentionally waive any rights they may have to a trial by jury in respect of any litigation based hereon, or arising out of, under or in connection with this Indenture or any course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether oral or written) or actions of the Trustee or the Company relating thereto. The Company acknowledges and agrees that it has received full and sufficient consideration for this provision and that this provision is a material inducement for the Trustee and the Holders entering into this Indenture.
 
SECTION 113.
Legal Holidays.
 
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of any Security which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity; and no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, if payment is made on the next succeeding Business Day.
 
 
 
SECTION 201.
Form and Dating.
 
The Securities of each series and the Trustee's certificate of authentication thereon shall be in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Indenture, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or Depository therefor or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 202 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Securities shall be issuable only in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples thereof.
 
The Definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
(a) . Securities issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Security Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto). Securities issued in definitive form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Security Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached
Global and Definitive Securities
 
thereto). Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 203 hereof.
 
(b) . The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Securities that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream.
Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable
 
SECTION 202. .
Execution and Authentication
 
Two Officers of the Company shall sign the Securities for the Company, by manual or facsimile signature.
 
If an Officer of the Company whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time such Security is authenticated, such Security shall be valid nevertheless.
 
A Security shall not be valid or obligatory, or entitled to any benefit under this Indenture, unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee or an Authentication Agent. The signature of the Trustee shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been authenticated and delivered in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
The Trustee, upon a Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver Securities for original issue in an aggregate principal amount specified in such order. Such Company Order shall specify the amount of the Securities to be authenticated and the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated. The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
 
If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established by or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
 
(1) if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
 
(2) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
 
(3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
 
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 309, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
SECTION 203.
Transfer and Exchange.
 
(a) . A Global Security may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository, by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or to another nominee of the Depository, or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository. The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") to act as Depository with respect to the Global Securities. Global Securities shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Securities if:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
 
(i) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depository that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depository or that it is no longer
 
a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depository is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depository; or
 
(ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Securities (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Securities and delivers written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or
 
(iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default under this Indenture and the Trustee has received a request from the Depository or any Holder to issue Definitive Securities.
 
Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i) or (ii) above, the Company will notify the Trustee in writing that, upon surrender by the Participants and Indirect Participants of their interest in such Global Securities, Definitive Securities will be issued to each Person that such Participants and Indirect Participants and the Depository identify as being the beneficial owner of the related Securities. Global Securities also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 304 and 306 hereof. Except as otherwise provided above in this Section 203(a), every Security authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 203 or Section 304 or 306 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security. A Global Security may not be exchanged for another Security other than as provided in this Section 203(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 203(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
 
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depository, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
 
(i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, no transfer of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Securities may be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser) unless permitted by applicable law and made in compliance with subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) below. Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
provided
however
 
Security. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Security Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 203(b)(i) unless specifically stated herein.
 
(ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 203(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Security Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depository in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depository to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or, if Definitive Securities are at such time permitted to be issued pursuant to this Indenture, (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depository in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depository to cause to be issued a Definitive Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depository to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 203(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 203(b)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities contained in this Indenture and the Securities or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Securities pursuant to Section 203(h) hereof.
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
 
(iii) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 203(b)(ii) above and the Security Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security to Another Restricted Global Security
 
(A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
 
(B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security, then the transferor must
 
 
(iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be exchanged by any Holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 203(b)(ii) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in the Unrestricted Global Security
 
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
 
(1) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
 
(2) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 202 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate, one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above.
 
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
 
(c) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Securities
 
(i) . If any Holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
 
(A) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in Item 3(a) thereof;
 
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B), (C) and (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
 
(E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
 
(F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the
 
effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in Item 3(c) thereof.
 
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 203(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Restricted Definitive Security in the appropriate principal amount. Any Restricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 203(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depository and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Restricted Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Restricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 203(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
 
(ii) . A Holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(A) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
 
(1) if the Holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
Upon receipt of such applicable documentation, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the Restricted Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 203(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order pursuant to Section 202, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions an Unrestricted Definitive Security, in the appropriate principal amount.
 
(iii) . If any Holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 203(b)(ii) hereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Unrestricted Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 203(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions an Unrestricted Definitive Security in the appropriate principal amount. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Any Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 203(c)(iii) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(d) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Beneficial Interests
 
(i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
 
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
 
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate
 
to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; or
 
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Security, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Security, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Security, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Security.
 
(ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Restricted Definitive Security to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security only if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
 
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
 
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to exchange such Securities for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
 
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to transfer such Securities to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the
 
form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 203(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Restricted Definitive Securities and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security.
 
(iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Security may exchange such Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Unrestricted Definitive Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Securities.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
 
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Security to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) of this Section 203(d) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 202 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Securities so transferred.
 
(e) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Securities and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 203(e), the Security Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Securities. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Security Registrar the Definitive Securities duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Security Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. The Trustee shall cancel any such Definitive Securities so surrendered, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order pursuant to Section 202, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Restricted Definitive Security or an Unrestricted Definitive Security, as applicable, in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Security issued pursuant to this Section 203(e)
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
 
shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depository and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Securities to the Persons in whose names such Definitive Securities are so registered. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 203(e).
 
(i) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security if the Security Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
 
(A) if the transfer is being made to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B) if the transfer is being made to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(C) if the transfer is being made to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (A) and (B) above, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
 
(D) if the transfer is being made to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then the transferor must deliver a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item 3(b) thereof; and
 
(E) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including, if the Security Registrar so requests, a certification or Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(ii) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) any such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
 
(1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to exchange such Securities for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
 
(2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to transfer such Securities to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(iii) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Securities may transfer such Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Security Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Securities pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
(f) . Upon the occurrence of an Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 202, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (x) they are not broker-dealers, (y) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (z) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer, or (ii) Unrestricted Definitive Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Securities accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Securities, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Securities to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Restricted Definitive Securities so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Securities in the appropriate principal amount.
Exchange Offer
 
(g) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Securities and Definitive Securities issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends
 
(i) . Except as permitted below, each Global Security and each Definitive Security (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Private Placement Legend
 
"THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE OFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST DATE OF ISSUANCE OF ANY SECURITY OF THIS SERIES AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SECURITY) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG
 
AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND OTHERWISE IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) PRIOR TO THE END OF THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF A HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE."
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Security or Definitive Security issued pursuant to subparagraph (b)(iv), (c)(ii), (c)(iii), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (f) to this Section 203 (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
(ii) . Each Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Security Legend
 
"THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY AND REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(a)
 
OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 309 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
 
(h) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security have been exchanged for Definitive Securities or a particular Global Security has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Security shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 309 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security or for Definitive Securities, the principal amount of Securities represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security, such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
 
(i) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
 
(i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Securities and Definitive Securities upon the Company's order or at the Security Registrar's request.
 
(ii) No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security or to a Holder of a Definitive Security for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient
 
to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Section 304 hereof).
 
(iii) The Security Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Security selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
 
(iv) All Global Securities and Definitive Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Securities or Definitive Securities shall be the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Securities or Definitive Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
(v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Securities during a period beginning at the opening of business on a Business Day 15 days before the day of any selection of Securities for redemption under Section 1103 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection or (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part or (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Security between a record date for the payment of interest and the next succeeding interest payment date.
 
(vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Security, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Securities and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
(vii) The Trustee shall authenticate Global Securities and Definitive Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 202 hereof.
 
(viii) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Security Registrar pursuant to this Section 203 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile with the original to follow by first class mail.
 
(j) .
No Obligation of the Trustee
 
(i) None of the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or obligation to any beneficial owner in a Global Security, a member of, or a participant in the Depository or other Person with respect to the accuracy of the records of the Depository or its nominee or of any participant or member thereof, with respect to any ownership interest in the Securities or with respect to the delivery to any participant, member, beneficial
 
owner or other Person (other than the Depository) of any notice (including any notice of redemption) or the payment of any amount, under or with respect to such Securities. All notices and communications to be given to the Holders and all payments to be made to Holders under the Securities shall be given or made only to or upon the order of the registered Holders (which shall be the Depository or its nominee in the case of the Global Security). The rights of beneficial owners in the Global Security shall be exercised only through the Depository subject to the applicable rules and procedures of the Depository. The Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar may rely and shall be fully protected in relying upon information furnished by the Depository with respect to its members, participants and any beneficial owners. The Trustee, each Paying Agent and the Security Registrar shall be entitled to deal with any depositary (including the Depository), and any nominee thereof, that is the Holder of any Global Security for all purposes of this Indenture relating to such global Security (including the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and additional amounts, if any, and the giving of instructions or directions by or to the owner or holder of a beneficial ownership interest in such Global Security) as the sole Holder of such Global Security and shall have no obligations to the beneficial owners thereof. None of the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any acts or omissions of any such depositary with respect to such Global Security, for the records of any such depositary, including records in respect of beneficial ownership interests in respect of any such Global Security, for any transactions between such depositary and any participant in such depositary or between or among any such depositary, any such participant and/or any holder or owner of a beneficial interest in such Global Security or for any transfers of beneficial interests in any such Global Security.
 
(ii) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Depository participants, members or beneficial owners in the Global Security) other than to make any required delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
 
 
SECTION 301.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
 
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
 
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 202, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
 
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from Securities of any other series);
 
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 202, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
 
(3) the Person to whom any interest on a Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest;
 
(4) the date or dates on which the principal of any Securities of the series is payable;
 
(5) the rate or rates at which any Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which any such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for any such interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
 
(6) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable;
 
(7) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which any Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to redeem the Securities shall be evidenced;
 
(8) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase any Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of the Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which any Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(9) if other than denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which any Securities of the series shall be issuable;
 
(10) if the amount of principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index or pursuant to a formula, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined,
 
(11) if other than the currency of the United States of America, the currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for any purpose, including for purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101;
 
(12) if the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series is to be payable, at the election of the Company or the Holder thereof, in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which such Securities are stated to be payable, the currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium or interest on such Securities as to which such election is made shall be payable, the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made and the amount so payable (or the manner in which such amount shall be determined);
 
(13) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of any Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502;
 
(14) if the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of any Securities of the series will not be determinable as of any one or more dates prior to the Stated Maturity, the amount which shall be deemed to be the principal amount of such Securities as of any such date for any purpose thereunder or hereunder, including the principal amount thereof which shall be due and payable upon any Maturity other than the Stated Maturity or which shall be deemed to be Outstanding as of any date prior to the Stated Maturity (or, in any such case, the manner in which such amount deemed to be the principal amount shall be determined);
 
(15) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall be defeasible pursuant to Section 1302 or Section 1303 or both such Sections and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease such Securities shall be evidenced;
 
(16) if applicable, that any Securities of the series shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the respective Depositories for such Global Securities, the form of any legend or legends which shall be borne by any such Global Security in addition to or in lieu of that set forth in Section 203 and any circumstances in addition to or in lieu of those set forth in Clause (2) of the last paragraph of Section 203(a) in which any such Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and any transfer of such Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name or names of Persons other than the Depository for such Global Security or a nominee thereof;
 
(17) any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 502;
 
(18) any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Article Ten which applies to Securities of the series; and
 
(19) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 901(5)).
 
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 202) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
 
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
 
SECTION 302.
Intentionally Omitted.
 
SECTION 303.
Intentionally Omitted.
 
SECTION 304.
Temporary Securities.
 
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute and, upon receipt of Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the Definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause Definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of Definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for Definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more Definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same rights, benefits and privileges under this Indenture as Definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
 
SECTION 305.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
 
The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office or agency and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
 
SECTION 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
 
If any mutilated security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
 
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
 
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
SECTION 307.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
 
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
 
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
 
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given to each Holder of Securities of such series in the manner set forth in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
 
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
SECTION 308.
Intentionally Omitted.
 
SECTION 309.
Cancellation.
 
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed in accordance with the Trustee's then customary procedures. If requested by the Company, certification of the disposition of all cancelled Securities shall be delivered to the Company.
 
SECTION 310.
Computation of Interest.
 
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
SECTION 311.
CUSIP Numbers.
 
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" and/or other similar numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" and/or such other numbers in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption or exchange and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" and/or such other numbers.
provided
 
 
 
SECTION 401. .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
 
This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
 
(1) either
 
(A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
 
(i) have become due and payable, or
 
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
 
(iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
 
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose money in an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
 
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
 
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.
 
SECTION 402. .
Application of Trust Money
 
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
 
 
 
SECTION 501.
Events of Default.
 
"Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
 
(1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
 
(2) default in the payment of the principal of or any premium on any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
 
(3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series; or
 
(4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
 
(5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company or a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of the its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
 
(6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of the its property, or the making by the Company of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company in writing of the its inability to pay the its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
 
(7) any other Event of Default provided as contemplated by Section 301 or 901 with respect to Securities of that series.
 
SECTION 502.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by
 
the terms thereof) shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable.
 
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
 
(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
 
(A) all overdue interest on all Securities of that series,
 
(B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
 
(C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
 
(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;
 
and
 
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 503.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
 
The Company covenants that if
 
(1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
 
(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
 
and such default is continuing, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable
 
on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
 
SECTION 504.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607) allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
 
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; , , that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
provided
however
 
SECTION 505.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
 
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding
 
instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
 
SECTION 506.
Application of Money Collected.
 
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article and, after an Event of Default, any money or other property distributable in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture, shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
 
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee (including any predecessor Trustee) under Section 607;
 
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
 
THIRD: To the Company or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct;
 
, , in the event that default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or default is made in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, on any Security on the Stated Maturity Date or Redemption Date thereof, the Trustee may reserve from any money collected pursuant to this Article an amount sufficient, in the reasonable determination of the Trustee, to cover the expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee that may be incurred thereafter.
provided
however
 
The Trustee may fix a record date for the payment of any amounts to Holders pursuant to this Section.
 
SECTION 507.
Limitation on Suits.
 
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
 
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
 
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
 
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
 
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
 
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
 
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
 
SECTION 508.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 307) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
 
SECTION 509.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
 
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
 
SECTION 510.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
 
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall,
 
to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
 
SECTION 511.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
 
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
 
SECTION 512.
Control by Holders.
 
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, , , that
provided
however
 
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture;
 
(2) such direction shall not involve the Trustee in personal liability; and
 
(3) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
 
SECTION 513.
Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default
 
(1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or
 
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
 
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 514.
Undertaking for Costs.
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; , , that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company.
provided
however
 
SECTION 515.
Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws.
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
 
 
SECTION 601.
Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
 
(1) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities,
 
(A) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(B) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
 
(2) In case an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise with respect to the Securities of such series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
 
(3) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that
 
(A) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsections (1) and (4) of this Section;
 
(B) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
(C) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
(5) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
 
SECTION 602.
Notice of Defaults.
 
If a default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such default as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. Except in the case of a default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security, or in the payment of any sinking fund installment, the Trustee may withhold such notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Holders of the Securities. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
provided
however
 
SECTION 603.
Certain Rights of Trustee.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
 
(1) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(2) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order, and any resolution of the Board of Directors shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
 
(3) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
 
(4) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
 
(5) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
 
(6) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
 
(7) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder,
 
(8) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
 
(9) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice or be charged with knowledge of any default (within the meaning of Section 602) or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series for which it is acting as Trustee unless written notice of such default or Event of Default, as the case may be, is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee from the Company, any other obligor upon such Securities or by any Holder of such Securities, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(10) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
 
(11) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any persons authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded;
 
(12) the permissive right of the Trustee hereunder to take or omit to take any action shall not be construed as a duty; and
 
(13) anything in this Indenture notwithstanding, in no event shall the Trustee be liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to loss of profit), even if the Company has been advised as to the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
SECTION 604.
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
 
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
 
SECTION 605.
May Hold Securities.
 
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise
 
deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
 
SECTION 606.
Money Held in Trust.
 
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on, or for the investment of, any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
 
SECTION 607.
Compensation and Reimbursement.
 
The Company agrees
 
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
 
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its gross negligence or willful misconduct; and
 
(3) to the fullest extent permitted by law, to indemnify each of the Trustee, or any predecessor Trustee, and their respective officers, employees, directors, shareholders and agents, for, and to hold them harmless against, any and all loss, damage, claim, liability or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee), incurred without gross negligence or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trusts and its duties under this Indenture, including the enforcement of this provision, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending (including the reasonable compensation and the expense and disbursements of its agents and counsel) themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
 
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, other than funds held in trust under Section 402.
 
In addition and without prejudice to the rights provided to the Trustee under any of the provisions of this Indenture, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the
 
compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal and State bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
 
The Company's obligations under this Section 607 and the lien referred to in this Section 607 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee, the discharge of the Company's obligations under Articles Four and Thirteen of this Indenture and/or the termination of this Indenture.
 
"Trustee" for purposes of this Section 607 shall include any predecessor Trustee; , , that the negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of any Trustee hereunder shall not affect the rights of any other Trustee hereunder.
provided
however
 
SECTION 608. .
Conflicting Interests
 
If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall eliminate such interest, apply to the Commission for permission to continue as trustee (if any of the Securities are registered pursuant to the Securities Act) or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by such Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any series, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any other series, or under any other indenture or indentures under which other securities, or certificates of interest or participation in other securities, of the Company are outstanding. Nothing herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the second to last paragraph of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
SECTION 609. .
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
 
There shall at all times be one (and only one) Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series, which may be Trustee hereunder for Securities of one or more other series. Each Trustee shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and has its Corporate Trust Office in the United States of America. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
SECTION 610. .
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
 
No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of
 
appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
 
The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may, at the expense of the Company, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the Trustee's receipt of such notice of removal, the departing Trustee may, at the expense of the Company, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
If at any time:
 
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
 
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
 
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
 
then, in any such case, (A) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (B) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
 
If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after such resignation,
 
removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
 
SECTION 611. .
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
 
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder; subject, nevertheless, to its lien provided for in Section 607.
 
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the
 
retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary, to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; subject, nevertheless, to its lien provided for in Section 607.
 
Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the first or second preceding paragraph, as the case may be.
 
No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
 
SECTION 612. .
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
 
Any Person into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
 
SECTION 613. .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
 
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
 
SECTION 614. .
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
 
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 306, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
 
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
 
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such appointment in the manner provided in Section 106 to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if
 
originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
 
The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 607.
 
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 701. .
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
 
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee
 
(1) semi-annually, not later than February 15 and August 15 in each year, commencing February 15, 2005, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of each series as of the preceding February 15 or August 15, as the case may be, and
 
(2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
 
from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
excluding
 
SECTION 702. .
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
 
The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee
 
as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
 
The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
 
SECTION 703. .
Reports by Trustee
 
So long as any Securities remain outstanding, the Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within sixty days after each September 1 following the date of this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such September 1, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a) (but if no event described in Section 313(a) has occurred within the 12 months preceding the reporting date, no such report need be transmitted). The Trustee also shall comply with Section 313(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act and shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
 
SECTION 704. .
Reports by Company
 
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; , , that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of same shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on an Officers' Certificate).
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 801. .
Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
 
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, and the Company shall not permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the Company, unless:
 
(1) in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge into another Person or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its properties and assets as an entirety to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company as an entirety shall be a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or trust, shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on all the Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
 
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
 
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
 
SECTION 802. .
Successor Substituted
 
Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same
 
effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in, the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
 
 
 
SECTION 901. .
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
 
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
 
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities contained, all as provided in Article Eight; or
 
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
 
(3) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such additional Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such additional Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series); or
 
(4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons, or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; or
 
(5) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, , , that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (ii) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; or
provided
however
 
(6) to secure the Securities; or
 
(7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or
 
(8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611;
 
(9) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, that such action pursuant to this Clause (9) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series; or
provided
 
(10) to comply with the requirements of the Commission either to effect or maintain the qualifications of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
 
SECTION 902. .
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
 
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
provided
however
 
(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security or any other Security which would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or
 
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
 
(3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513, or Section 1008, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of
 
each Outstanding Security affected thereby; , , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 1008, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 611 and 901(8).
provided
however
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
 
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
 
SECTION 903. .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
 
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
SECTION 904. .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
 
SECTION 905. .
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
 
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
SECTION 906. .
Notice of Supplemental Indenture; Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
 
After any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to this Article becomes effective, the Company shall mail to Holders a notice briefly describing such supplemental indenture. The failure to give such notice to all Holders, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture under this Article.
 
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
 
 
SECTION 1001. .
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
 
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
 
SECTION 1002. .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
 
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Security Registrar or Co-Security Registrar) where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1003. .
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
 
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any
 
premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (1) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (2) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
 
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
Subject to applicable abandoned property laws, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York, New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1004. .
Statement by Officers as to Default
 
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. The Company shall, so long as any of the Securities are Outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, forthwith upon any executive officer of the Company becoming aware of any default or Event of Default in respect of the performance or observance of any covenant, agreement or condition contained in this Indenture or the Securities, but in any event not later than twenty Business Days after the occurrence thereof, an Officers' Certificate specifying such default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
SECTION 1005. .
Existence
 
Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1006. .
Maintenance of Properties
 
The Company will cause all material properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order (reasonable wear and tear excepted) and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; , , that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties, or disposing of any of them, if such discontinuance or disposal is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1007. .
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
 
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials
 
and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; , , that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1008. .
Waiver of Certain Covenants
 
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant provided pursuant to Section 301(18), 901(2) or 901(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such series, if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
SECTION 1009. .
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
 
The Company shall provide to the Trustee on a timely basis such information as the Trustee requires to enable the Trustee to prepare and file any form required to be submitted by the Company with the Internal Revenue Service and the Holders of the Notes relating to original issue discount, including, without limitation, Form 1099-OID or any successor form.
 
 
 
SECTION 1101. .
Applicability of Article
 
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities) in accordance with this Article.
 
SECTION 1102. .
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
 
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series (including any such redemption affecting only a single Security), the Company shall, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series
 
to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
 
SECTION 1103. .
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
 
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities are listed or, if the Securities are not so listed, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series, , , that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. If less than all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed (unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.
provided
however
 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption as aforesaid and, in case of any Securities selected for partial redemption as aforesaid, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
The provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall not apply with respect to any redemption affecting only a single Security, whether such Security is to be redeemed in whole or in part. In the case of any such redemption in part, the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of the Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security.
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
SECTION 1104. .
Notice of Redemption
 
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
 
All notices of redemption shall state:
 
(1) the Redemption Date,
 
(2) the Redemption Price,
 
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of more than a single Security are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any such Securities, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed and, if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of a single Security are to be redeemed, the principal amount of the particular Security to be redeemed,
 
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price, and accrued interest, if any, will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
 
(5) the place or places where each such Security is to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price,
 
(6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case, and
 
(7) the CUSIP and/or other similar number as contemplated by Section 311.
 
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable.
 
SECTION 1105. .
Deposit of Redemption Price
 
On or prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
 
SECTION 1106. .
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
 
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of
provided
however
 
business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
 
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
 
SECTION 1107. .
Securities Redeemed in Part
 
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
 
 
 
SECTION 1201. .
Applicability of Article
 
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of any series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities.
 
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of any Securities is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of such Securities is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of any Securities, the cash amount of any sinking find payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities as provided for by the terms of such Securities.
 
SECTION 1202. .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
 
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as and to the extent provided for by the terms of such Securities; , , that the Securities to be so credited have not been previously so credited. The Securities to be so credited shall be received and
provided
however
 
credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price, as specified in the Securities so to be redeemed, for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
 
SECTION 1203. .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
 
Not less than 90 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for such Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 45 days prior to each such sinking fund payment date, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
 
 
 
SECTION 1301. .
Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
 
The Company may elect, at its option at any time, to have Section 1302 or Section 1303 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, designated pursuant to Section 301 as being defeasible pursuant to such Section 1302 or 1303, in accordance with any applicable requirements provided pursuant to Section 301 and upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities.
 
SECTION 1302. .
Defeasance and Discharge
 
Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of Holders of such Securities to receive, solely from the trust
 
fund described in Section 1304 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities when payments are due, (2) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003 and with respect to the Trustee, including but not limited to those under Section 607, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article. Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option (if any) to have Section 1303 applied to such Securities.
 
SECTION 1303. .
Covenant Defeasance
 
Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, (1) the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 1006 through 1007, inclusive, and any covenants provided pursuant to Sections 301(18), 901(2) or 901(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 501(4) (with respect to any of Sections 1006 through 1007, inclusive, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(18), 901(2) or 901(7)) and 501(7) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to such Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 501(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
 
SECTION 1304. .
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
 
The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 1302 or Section 1303 to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be:
 
(1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee which satisfies the requirements contemplated by Section 609 and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Article applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefits of the Holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other
 
qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities on the respective Stated Maturities or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities. As used herein, "U.S. Government Obligation" means (x) any security which is a direct obligation of the United States of America for the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged or (ii) an obligation of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case (i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and (y) any depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any U.S. Government Obligation which is specified in Clause (x) above and held by such bank for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt, or with respect to any specific payment of principal of or interest on any U.S. Government Obligation which is so specified and held, , , that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal or interest evidenced by such depositary receipt.
provided
however
 
(2) In the event of an election to have Section 1302 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this instrument, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.
 
(3) In the event of an election to have Section 1303 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur.
 
(4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that neither such Securities nor any other Securities of the same series, if then listed on any securities exchange, will be delisted as a result of such deposit.
 
(5) No event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any other Securities shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit or, with regard to any such event specified in Sections 501(6) and (7), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until after such 90th day).
 
(6) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act (assuming all Securities are in default within the meaning of such Act).
 
(7) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
 
(8) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act unless such trust shall be registered under such Act or exempt from registration thereunder.
 
(9) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
 
SECTION 1305. .
Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Miscellaneous Provisions
 
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 1306, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1304 in respect of any Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1304 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities.
 
Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 1304 with respect to any
 
Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect the Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities.
 
SECTION 1306. .
Reinstatement
 
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Section 1302 or 1303 shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 1305 with respect to such Securities in accordance with this Article; , , that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights (if any) of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
provided
however
 
 
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
I W W, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
"THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE OFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST DATE OF ISSUANCE OF ANY SECURITY OF THIS SERIES AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SECURITY) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A"), TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND OTHERWISE IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) PRIOR TO THE END OF THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF A HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE."
 
 
THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY AND REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR
 
ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 309 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. $
            
            
 
WellPoint, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Indiana (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to                          , or registered assigns, the principal sum of              Dollars on              [X, and to pay interest thereon from                      or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on                  and                  in each year, commencing                     , at the rate of       % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [X, , that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of       % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand). The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the                          or                          (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holder of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.][. The principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal and any overdue premium shall bear interest at the rate of       % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment. Interest on any overdue principal or premium shall be payable on demand. [Any such interest on overdue principal or premium which is not paid on demand shall bear interest at the rate of       % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest on interest shall be legally enforceable), from the date of such demand until the amount so demanded is paid or made available for payment. Interest on any overdue interest shall be payable on demand.]]
if the Security is to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
if applicable, insert
provided
however
if the Security is not to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
X
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and [any such] interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts [; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register].
if applicable, insert X
if applicable, insert X
provided
however
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
I W W, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of                     , 2004 (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof [, limited in aggregate principal amount to $            ].
if applicable, insert
X
 
[ X The Securities of this series are subject to redemption at any time, upon not less than 30 days' and not more than 60 days' notice by mail, as a whole or from time to time in part, at the election of the Company [ X (, , that, if the Company shall have elected pursuant to the Indenture to defease [the entire indebtedness of this Security] [or] [certain restrictive covenants and Events of Defaults with respect to this Security], prior to making such election to redeem the Securities it shall have deposited in trust amounts sufficient to pay the Redemption Price)], on any date prior to their Stated Maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued interest thereon to the Redemption Date and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) of the notes to be redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus [    ] basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date.
If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
provided
however
 
"" means, for any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity, computed as the second Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue referred to below, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price referred to below for that Redemption Date. "" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the notes to be redeemed. "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date, as contained in the daily statistical release, or any successor release, published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "Composite 3:30 p.m. Quotations for U.S. Government Securities," or (2) if the release, or any successor release, is not published or does not contain these prices on that business day, (a) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Quotations, or (b) if the
Treasury Rate
Comparable Treasury Issue
Comparable Treasury Price
 
Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all these quotations. "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means [    ] and [their] successors and one other nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer. "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date. "" means, with respect to each note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.]
Independent Investment Banker
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Remaining Scheduled Payments
 
[ X The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, [ X (1) on            in any year commencing with the year            and ending with the year            through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [ X on or after            ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed [ X on or before            and if redeemed] during the 12-month period beginning            of the years indicated,
If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
 
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to             % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption [ X (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise)] with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
if applicable, insert
 
[ X The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, (1) on              in any year commencing with the year              and ending with the year            through operation of the sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time [X on or after                     ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below: If redeemed during the 12-month period beginning            on of the years indicated,
If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
 
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to             % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
 
[ X Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not, prior to             , redeem any Securities of this series as contemplated by [ X Clause (2) of] the preceding paragraph as a part of, or in anticipation of, any refunding operation by the application, directly or indirectly, of moneys borrowed having an interest cost to the Company (calculated in accordance with generally accepted financial practice) of less than             % per annum.]
If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
 
[X The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on            in each year beginning with the year            and ending with the year of            [ X not less than $            ("mandatory sinking fund") and not more than] $ aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series. Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [ X mandatory] sinking fund payments may be credited against subsequent [ X mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be made [ X, in the inverse order in which they become due].]
If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
 
[ X In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
If the Security is subject to redemption of any kind, insert
 
[ X The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of [the entire indebtedness of this Security] [or] [certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security] [, in each case] upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.]
If applicable, insert
 
[ X If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.]
If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
 
[ X If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal to X
If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
insert formula for determining the
 
. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal, premium and interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and premium and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
amount
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security may be registered and this Security may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $              and any integral multiple thereof.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
 
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
and irrevocably appoint as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
Your Signature:_______________________________________________________________________________________________
        (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
 
Your Name: _________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
Date:_____________________
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                                                                                                                                                    *
 
 
 
 
 
The following exchanges of an interest in this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of an interest in another Global Security or a Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security have been made:
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
WellPoint, Inc.
120 Monument Circle
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204-4903
Facsimile: [                    ]
Attention: [                    ]
 
CUSIP:
                    
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of December , 2004 (the ""), between WellPoint, Inc., an Indiana corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
    
Indenture
Company
 
(the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Security[ies] or interest in such Security[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $ in such Security[s] or interests (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                            
Transferor
                    
Transfer
                                        
Transferee
 
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY]
 
1.
The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Security is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security or a Definitive Security Pursuant to Rule 144A.
 
2.
The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security or a Definitive Security pursuant to Regulation S.
 
reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security shall be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
3.
The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Definitive Security pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S.
 
(a)
such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or
 
(b)
such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
 
(c)
such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or
 
(d)
such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Security or Restricted Definitive Securities and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture and (2) if the principal amount of Securities to be transferred is less than $100,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
4.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Definitive Security.
 
(a)
. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security shall no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144
 
(b)
. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security shall no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S
 
(c)
. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security shall not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
Dated:
                                                             
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                                                                                                                                                         *
 
 
ANNEX A TO CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
WellPoint, Inc.
120 Monument Circle
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204-4903
Facsimile: [                    ]
Attention: [                    ]
 
CUSIP:
                    
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of December , 2004 (the ""), between WellPoint, Inc., an Indiana corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
        
Indenture
Company
 
(the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Security[ies] or interest in such Security[ies] specified herein, in the principal amount at maturity of $ in such Security[ies] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
                                                                             
Owner
                    
Exchange
 
1.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Unrestricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security.
 
(a)
. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security
 
(b)
. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security
 
compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
 
(c)
. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security
 
(d)
. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable Blue Sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security
 
2.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities for Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities.
 
(a)
. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Restricted Definitive Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that (i) the Restricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Security issued shall continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Restricted Definitive Security
 
(b)
. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE]
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security
 
144A Global Security,
 
Regulation S Global Security
 
with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
WellPoint, Inc.
120 Monument Circle
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204-4903
Facsimile: [                    ]
Attention: [                    ]
 
CUSIP:
                    
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of December , 2004 (the ""), between WellPoint, Inc., an Indiana corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
    
Indenture
Company
 
In connection with our proposed purchase of $ aggregate principal amount at maturity of:
                    
 
(a)
beneficial interest in a Global Security, or
 
(b)
a Definitive Security,
 
we confirm that:
 
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Securities or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Securities or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
 
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Securities have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Securities and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Securities or any interest therein, we shall do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) for so long as the Securities are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144A to a person we reasonably believe is a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A (a "") that purchases for its own account or for the account of a QIB and to whom notice is given that the transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that is
QIB
 
purchasing the Securities for its own account or for the account of such an institutional "accredited investor" for investment purposes only, and not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution in violation of the Securities Act, and that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, subject in each of the foregoing cases to any requirement of law that the disposition of our property or the property of such investor account or accounts be at all times within our, its or their control and in each case in compliance with any applicable securities laws of any U.S. state or any other applicable jurisdiction. We further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Security or beneficial interest in a Global Security from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein. Each purchaser acknowledges that the Company and the Trustee reserve the right prior to the offer, sale or other transfer made prior to the Resale Termination Date to require the delivery of an opinion of counsel, certifications and/or other information satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee.
 
3. We are purchasing the Securities for our own account, or for one or more investor accounts for which we are acting as a fiduciary or agent, in each case for investment, and not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution thereof in violation of the Securities Act, subject to any requirement of law that the disposition of our property or the property of such investor account or accounts be at all times within our or their control and subject to our or their ability to resell such Securities pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act ("") or any exemption from registration available under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
 
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) or, if the Securities are to be purchased for one or more accounts ("") for which we are acting as fiduciary or agent, each such investor account is an institutional "accredited investor" on a like basis. We have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of purchasing the Securities and invest in or purchase securities similar to the Securities in the normal course of our business. We and any accounts for which we are acting are each aware that we may be required, and are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment in the Securities for an indefinite period of time.
investor accounts
 
5. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Securities or beneficial interest therein, we shall be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Securities purchased by us shall bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
 
6. If we are acquiring any of the Securities as a fiduciary or agent for one or more investor accounts, we represent that we have sole investment discretion with respect to each such account and we have full power to make the foregoing acknowledgments, representations, warranties and agreements on behalf of each such investor account.
 
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.2
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of December 9, 2004, by and among WELLPOINT, INC., an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), and BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO., J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC., and UBS SECURITIES LLC (each an "Initial Purchaser" and, collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"), who have agreed to purchase $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.750% Notes due 2007, $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.250% Notes due 2009, $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.000% Notes due 2014, and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.950% Notes due 2034 pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below).
 
This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2004 (the "Purchase Agreement"), by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (i) for your benefit and for the benefit of each other Initial Purchaser and (ii) for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Notes (including you and each other Initial Purchaser). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Initial Notes, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 5(h) of the Purchase Agreement.
 
The parties hereby agree as follows:
 
S 1. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
ECTION
Definitions.
 
As defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act.
Affiliate:
 
Any broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer:
 
The date of this Agreement.
Closing Date:
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission:
 
An Exchange Offer relating to any series of Initial Notes shall be deemed "Consummated" for purposes of this Agreement upon the occurrence of (i) the filing and effectiveness under the Securities Act of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to that series of Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer, (ii) the maintenance of such Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective and the keeping of the Exchange Offer open for a period not less than the minimum period required pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof, and (iii) the delivery by the Company to the Registrar under the Indenture of Exchange Notes in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes of that series that were tendered by Holders thereof pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Consummate:
 
As defined in Section 3(b).
Consummation Deadline:
 
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act:
 
The Company's 3.750% Notes due 2007, 4.250% Notes due 2009, 5.000% Notes due 2014, and 5.950% Notes due 2034, in each case substantially identical under the Indenture as the relevant series of Initial Notes, to be issued to Holders in exchange for Initial Notes pursuant to this Agreement.
Exchange Notes:
 
The registration by the Company under the Securities Act of the Exchange Notes of each series pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to which the Company offers the Holders of all outstanding Initial Notes of the relevant series the opportunity to exchange all such outstanding Initial Notes held by such Holders for Exchange Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Initial Notes tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders.
Exchange Offer:
 
The Registration Statement relating to any of the Exchange Offers, including the related Prospectus, which may be in the form of a single Registration Statement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement:
 
As defined in Section 2(b) hereof.
Holders:
 
As defined in Section 8(a) hereof.
Indemnified Holder:
 
The Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2004, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"), pursuant to which the Initial Notes and the Exchange Notes are to be issued, as such Indenture is amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture:
 
The Company's 3.750% Notes due 2007, 4.250% Notes due 2014, 5.000% Notes due 2014, and 5.950% Notes due 2034, in each case of the same series under the Indenture as the relevant series of Exchange Notes, for so long as such securities constitute Transfer Restricted Securities.
Initial Notes:
 
The issuance and sale by the Company of the Initial Notes to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Initial Placement:
 
As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchaser:
 
As defined in the Indenture and the Initial Notes.
Interest Payment Date:
 
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
NASD:
 
An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or any governmental agency or political subdivision of a government or governmental agency.
Person:
 
The prospectus included in a Registration Statement at the time such Registration Statement is declared effective, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus:
 
As defined in Section 6(d) hereof.
Recommencement Date:
 
As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Registration Default:
 
Any registration statement of the Company relating to (a) an offering of Exchange Notes pursuant to an Exchange Offer or (b) the registration for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, which is filed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, in each case, including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement:
 
Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144:
 
The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act:
 
As defined in Section 4 hereof.
Shelf Filing Deadline:
 
As defined in Section 4 hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement:
 
As defined in Section 6(d) hereof.
Suspension Notice:
 
The Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Section 77aaa 77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture.
Trust Indenture Act:
 
Each Initial Note, until the earliest to occur of (a) the date on which such Initial Note is exchanged in the Exchange Offer for an Exchange Note which is entitled to be resold to the public by the Holder thereof without complying with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act, (b) the date on which such Initial Note has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a Shelf Registration Statement and (c) the date on which such Initial Note may be distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the "Plan of Distribution" contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (including delivery of the Prospectus contained therein).
Transfer Restricted Securities:
 
A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Registration or Underwritten Offering:
 
S 2.
ECTION
Securities Subject to This Agreement.
 
(a) The securities entitled to the benefits of this Agreement are the Transfer Restricted Securities.
Transfer Restricted Securities.
 
(b) A Person is deemed to be a holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (each, a "Holder") whenever such Person owns Transfer Restricted Securities.
Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities.
 
S 3.
ECTION
Registered Exchange Offer.
 
(a) Unless the Exchange Offer with respect to any series of Initial Notes shall not be permissible under applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) below have been complied with), the Company shall with respect to each other series of Initial Notes: (i) cause to be filed with the Commission as soon as practicable after the Closing Date, but in no event later than 90 days after the Closing Date, an Exchange Offer Registration Statement under the Securities Act, (ii) use every reasonable effort to cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective at the earliest possible time, but in no event later than 180 days after the Closing Date, (iii) in connection with the foregoing, (A) file all pre-effective amendments to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement as may be necessary in order to cause it to become effective, (B) file, if applicable, a post-effective amendment to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430A under the Securities Act and (C) cause all necessary filings, if any, in connection with the registration and qualification of the Exchange Notes to be made under the Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as are necessary to permit Consummation of the Exchange Offer, and (iv) upon the effectiveness of such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, commence the Exchange Offers and use every reasonable effort to Consummate the Exchange Offers not later than 210 days after the Closing Date. The Exchange Offers shall be on the appropriate form permitting registration of the Exchange Notes to be offered in exchange for the Initial Notes and resales of Exchange Notes held by Broker-Dealers that tendered the Initial Notes that such Broker-Dealer acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or any of its Affiliates) as contemplated by Section 3(c) below.
 
(b) The Company shall use every reasonable effort to cause an Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to each series of Exchange Notes (which may be in the form of a single Registration Statement) to be effective continuously and shall keep the Exchange Offer open for a period of not less than the minimum period required under applicable federal and state securities laws to Consummate the Exchange Offer; ,, that in no event shall such period be less than 20 business days after the date notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders. The Company shall cause the Exchange Offers to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the Exchange Notes shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. The Company shall use every reasonable effort to cause the Exchange Offers to be Consummated on the earliest practicable date after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has become effective, but in no event later than 210 days after the Closing Date (such 210th day being the "Consummation Deadline").
provided
however
 
(c) The Company shall indicate in a "Plan of Distribution" section contained in the Prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement that any Broker-Dealer who holds Initial Notes that are Transfer Restricted Securities and that were acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company), may exchange such Initial Notes that are Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offers; however, such Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must, therefore, deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resales of the Exchange Notes received by such Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offers, which prospectus delivery requirement may be satisfied by the delivery by such Broker-Dealer of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also contain all other information with respect to such
 
resales by Broker-Dealers that the Commission may require in order to permit such resales pursuant thereto, but such "Plan of Distribution" shall not name any such Broker-Dealer or disclose the amount of Initial Notes held by any such Broker-Dealer except to the extent required by the Commission as a result of a change in policy after the date of this Agreement.
 
The Company shall use every reasonable effort to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by and subject to the provisions of Sections 6(a) and 6(c) below to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Exchange Notes acquired by Broker-Dealers for their own accounts as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period ending on the earlier of (i) 180 days from the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective (ii) the date on which a Broker-Dealer is no longer required to deliver a prospectus in connection with market-making or other trading activities and (iii) such shorter period that will terminate when all the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Exchange Offer Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
The Company shall provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such Prospectus to Broker-Dealers promptly upon request at any time during such 180-day (or shorter as provided in the foregoing sentence) period in order to facilitate such resales.
 
S 4.
ECTION
Shelf Registration.
 
(a) If (i) the Company is not required to file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or to consummate the Exchange Offer because the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) below have been complied with), (ii) for any reason the Exchange Offer is not Consummated by the Consummation Deadline, or (iii) if any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall notify the Company within 20 business days following the date on which any Exchange Offer is consummated that (A) such Holder was prohibited by applicable law or Commission policy from participating in the Exchange Offer, or (B) such Holder may not resell the Exchange Notes acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and that the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales by such Holder, or (C) such Holder is a Broker-Dealer and holds Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates, then the Company shall
Shelf Registration.
 
(x) cause to be filed a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act, which may be an amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (in either event, the "Shelf Registration Statement") as soon as practicable but in any event on or prior to the later of (1) 30 days after the date on which the Company determines that an Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to that series of Initial Notes cannot be filed as a result of clause (a)(i) above, (2) 30 days after the date on which the Company receives notice specified in clause (a)(iii) above and (3) the 90th day after the Closing Date (such later date being the "Shelf Filing Deadline"), which Shelf Registration Statement shall provide for resales of all Transfer Restricted Securities the
 
Holders of which shall have provided the information required pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof; and
 
(y) use every reasonable effort to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission on or before the 90th day after the Shelf Filing Deadline.
 
The Company shall use every reasonable effort to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by and subject to the provisions of Sections 6(b) and (c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Transfer Restricted Securities of such series of Initial Notes by the Holders thereof entitled to the benefit of this Section 4(a), and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of at least two years from the Closing Date following the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement (or such shorter period that will terminate when all the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement).
 
(b) No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may include any of its Transfer Restricted Securities in any Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing, within 20 business days after receipt of a request therefor, (i) the information specified in Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, of the Securities Act for use in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein and (ii) such other information as the Company may reasonably request for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein. Each Holder as to which any Shelf Registration Statement is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not materially misleading.
Provision by Holders of Certain Information in Connection with the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
S 5. If (i) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the date specified for such filing in this Agreement, (ii) any such Registration Statement has not been declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the date specified for such effectiveness in this Agreement, (iii) the Exchange Offer has not been Consummated on or prior to the Consummation Deadline or (iv) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective or fail to be usable in connection with resales of Transfer Restricted Securities during the periods specified in this Agreement without being succeeded immediately by a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement that cures such failure and that is itself immediately declared effective (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iv), a ""), then the Company hereby agrees to pay to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities affected thereby additional interest in an amount equal to $0.05 per week per $1,000 in principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holder for each week or portion thereof that the Registration Default continues for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of such Registration Default. The amount of additional interest shall be increased by an additional $0.05 per week per $1,000 in principal amount of
ECTION
Additional Interest.
Registration Default
 
Transfer Restricted Securities with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all Registration Defaults have been cured, the Transfer Restricted Securities become freely tradeable without registration under the Act or no Transfer Restricted Securities are outstanding, up to a maximum amount of additional interest of $0.30 per week per $1,000 in principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities; that the Company shall in no event be required to pay additional interest for more than one Registration Default at any given time. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, (1) upon filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement), in the case of (i) above, (2) upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement), in the case of (ii) above, (3) upon Consummation of the Exchange Offer or the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement filed by the Company in accordance with Section 4(a)(ii) hereof, in each case with respect to the affected series of Transfer Restricted Securities, in the case of (iii) above, or (4) upon the filing of a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or an additional Registration Statement that causes the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement) to again be declared effective or made usable in the case of (iv) above, the additional interest payable with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities of the applicable series as a result of such clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), as applicable, shall cease (unless a subsequent Registration Default shall occur).
provided
 
All accrued additional interest shall be paid to the Holders entitled thereto, in the manner provided for the payment of interest in the Indenture, on each Interest Payment Date, as more fully set forth in the Indenture and the Initial Notes. Notwithstanding the fact that any securities for which additional interest is due cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities, all obligations of the Company to pay additional interest with respect to securities shall survive until such time as such obligations with respect to such securities shall have been satisfied in full.
 
S 6.
ECTION
Registration Procedures.
 
(a) In connection with each Exchange Offer, the Company shall comply with all of the provisions of Section 6(c) below, shall use every reasonable effort to effect such exchange to permit the sale of Transfer Restricted Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and shall comply with all of the following provisions:
Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
(i) If in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the Company there is a question as to whether any Exchange Offer is permitted by applicable federal law, the Company hereby agrees to seek a no-action letter or other favorable decision from the Commission allowing the Company to Consummate an Exchange Offer for such Initial Notes. The Company hereby agrees to pursue the issuance of such a decision to the Commission staff level but shall not be required to take commercially unreasonable action to effect a change of Commission policy. In connection with the issuance of such decision, the Company hereby agrees, however, to (A) participate in telephonic conferences with the Commission, (B) deliver to the Commission staff an analysis prepared by counsel to the Company setting forth the legal bases, if any, upon which such counsel has concluded that such an Exchange Offer should be permitted and (C) diligently pursue a favorable resolution by the Commission staff of such submission.
 
(ii) As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any Holder who is a Broker-Dealer) shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the Consummation of the applicable Exchange Offer, a written representation to the Company (which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the related Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to the effect that (A) it is not an Affiliate of the Company, (B) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in, a distribution of the applicable series of Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (C) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes of the applicable series in its ordinary course of business. In addition, all such Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall otherwise cooperate in the Company's preparations for the Exchange Offer. Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the securities to be acquired in the Exchange Offer (1) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission enunciated in Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc. (available June 5, 1991) and Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (available May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993, and similar no-action letters (which may include any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above), and (2) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction should be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K if the resales are of Exchange Notes obtained by such Holder in exchange for Initial Notes acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or an Affiliate thereof.
 
(b) In connection with each Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall comply with all the provisions of Section 6(c) below and shall use every reasonable effort to effect such registration to permit the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and pursuant thereto the Company will as expeditiously as possible prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form shall be available for the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof within the time periods and otherwise in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement.
 
(c) In connection with any Registration Statement and any related Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Transfer Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any Registration Statement and the related Prospectus required to permit resales of Exchange Notes by Broker-Dealers), the Company shall:
General Provisions.
 
(i) use every reasonable effort to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements for the period specified in Section 3 or 4 of this Agreement, as applicable; upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any such Registration Statement or the Prospectus contained therein (A) to contain a material misstatement or omission or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of
 
Transfer Restricted Securities during the period required by this Agreement, the Company shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to such Registration Statement, in the case of clause (A), correcting any such misstatement or omission, and, in the case of either clause (A) or (B), use every reasonable effort to cause such amendment to be declared effective and such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus to become usable for their intended purpose(s) as soon as practicable thereafter;
 
(ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement effective for the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, or such shorter period as will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, and to comply fully with the applicable provisions of Rules 424 and 430A under the Securities Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus;
 
(iii) advise the underwriter(s), if any, and selling Holders promptly and, if requested by such underwriter or Holder, confirm such advice in writing, (A) when the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to any Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to any Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act or of the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (D) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement in order to make the statements therein not misleading or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement in order to make the statements therein not misleading or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading. If at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under state securities or Blue Sky laws, the Company shall use every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time;
 
(iv) furnish without charge to each of the Initial Purchasers, each selling Holder named in any Registration Statement, and each of the underwriter(s), if any, before filing with the Commission, copies of any Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all documents incorporated by reference after the initial filing of such Registration Statement), which documents will be subject to the review of such Holders and underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, for a period of at least five business days, and the Company will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents incorporated by reference) to which an Initial Purchaser of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement or the underwriter(s), if any, shall reasonably object in writing within five business days after the receipt thereof (such objection to be deemed timely made upon confirmation of telecopy transmission within such period). The objection of an Initial Purchaser or underwriter, if any, shall be deemed to be reasonable if such Registration Statement, amendment, Prospectus or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains a material misstatement or omission;
 
(v) promptly prior to the filing of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers, each selling Holder named in any Registration Statement, and to the underwriter(s), if any, make the Company's representatives available for discussion of such document and other customary due diligence matters, and include such information in such document prior to the filing thereof as such selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, reasonably may request;
 
(vi) make available at reasonable times for inspection by the Initial Purchasers, any managing underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement and any attorney or accountant retained by such Initial Purchasers or any of the underwriter(s), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Holder, underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with such Registration Statement subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness;
 
(vii) if requested by any selling Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, promptly include in any Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such selling Holders and underwriter(s), if any, may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Transfer Restricted Securities, information with respect to the principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being sold to such underwriter(s), the purchase price being paid therefor and any other terms of the offering of the Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold in such offering; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be included in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;
 
(viii) cause the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes covered thereby or the underwriter(s), if any;
 
(ix) furnish to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, at least one copy of the Registration Statement, as first filed with the Commission, and of each amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, all documents incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits (including exhibits incorporated therein by reference);
 
(x) deliver to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons reasonably may request; the Company hereby consents to the use (in accordance with applicable law) of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and each of the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
 
(xi) enter into such agreements (including an underwriting agreement), and make such representations and warranties, and take all such other actions in connection therewith in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement, all to such extent as may be requested by any Initial Purchaser or by any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or underwriter in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement; and whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an Underwritten Registration, the Company shall:
 
(A) furnish to each Initial Purchaser, each selling Holder and each underwriter, if any, in such substance and scope as they may request and as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings, upon the date of the Consummation of the Exchange Offer and, if applicable, the effectiveness of each Shelf Registration Statement:
 
(1) a certificate, dated the date of Consummation of the Exchange Offer or the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, signed on behalf of the Company by (y) the President or any Vice President and (z) a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company, confirming, as of the date thereof, the matters set forth in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 5 (f) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request;
 
(2) an opinion, dated the date of Consummation of the Exchange Offer or the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, of counsel for the Company, covering the matters set
 
forth in paragraph (c) of Section 5 of the Purchase Agreement and such other matter as such parties may reasonably request, and in any event including a statement to the effect that such counsel has participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent public accountants for the Company, the Initial Purchasers' representatives and the Initial Purchasers' counsel in connection with the preparation of such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and have considered the matters required to be stated therein and the statements contained therein, although such counsel has not independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements; and that such counsel advises that, on the basis of the foregoing (relying as to materiality to the extent such counsel deems appropriate upon facts provided to such counsel by officers and other representatives of the Company and without independent check or verification), no facts came to such counsel's attention that caused such counsel to believe that the applicable Registration Statement, at the time such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto became effective, and, in the case of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as of the date of Consummation of the related Exchange Offer, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the related Prospectus contained in such Registration Statement as of its date and, in the case of the opinion dated the date of Consummation of the related Exchange Offer, as of the date of Consummation, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Without limiting the foregoing, such counsel may state further that such counsel assumes no responsibility for, and has not independently verified, the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the financial statements, notes and schedules and other financial data included in any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement or the related Prospectus; and
 
(3) a customary comfort letter, dated as of the date of Consummation of each Exchange Offer or the date of effectiveness of each Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, from the Company's independent accountants, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters by underwriters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, and affirming the matters set forth in the comfort letters delivered pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Purchase Agreement, without exception;
 
(B) set forth in full or incorporate by reference in the underwriting agreement, if any, the indemnification provisions and procedures of Section 8 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section; and
 
(C) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by such parties to evidence compliance with clause (A) above and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company pursuant to this clause (xi), if any.
 
If at any time the representations and warranties of the Company contemplated in clause (A)(1) above cease to be true and correct, the Company shall so advise the Initial Purchasers and the underwriter(s), if any, and each selling Holder promptly and, if requested by such Persons, shall confirm such advice in writing;
 
(xii) prior to any public offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, cooperate with the selling Holders, the underwriter(s), if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration and qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the selling Holders or underwriter(s) may request and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the applicable Registration Statement; ,, that the Company shall not be required to register or qualify as a foreign corporation where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation, other than as to matters and transactions relating to the Registration Statement, in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided
however
 
(xiii) shall issue, upon the request of any Holder of Initial Notes covered by each Shelf Registration Statement, Exchange Notes, having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes surrendered to the Company by such Holder in exchange therefor or being sold by such Holder; such Exchange Notes to be registered in the name of such Holder or in the name of the purchaser(s) of such Exchange Notes, as the case may be; in return, the Initial Notes held by such Holder shall be surrendered to the Company for cancellation;
 
(xiv) in connection with any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities that will result in such securities no longer being Transfer Restricted Securities, cooperate with the selling Holders and the underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Transfer Restricted Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, may request at least two business days prior to any such sale of Transfer Restricted Securities;
 
(xv) use every reasonable effort to cause the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by each Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof or the underwriter(s), if any, to consummate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities, subject to the proviso contained in clause (viii) above;
 
(xvi) subject to Section 6(c)(i), if any fact or event contemplated by clause (c)(iii)(D) above shall exist or have occurred, prepare a supplement or post-effective
 
amendment to the Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of Transfer Restricted Securities, the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading;
 
(xvii) provide a CUSIP number for all Transfer Restricted Securities not later than the effective date of the Registration Statement covering such Transfer Restricted Securities and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with printed certificates for the Transfer Restricted Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary Trust Company;
 
(xviii) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the NASD and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter (including any "qualified independent underwriter") that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD, and use every reasonable effort to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and approved by such governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable the Holders selling Transfer Restricted Securities to consummate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities;
 
(xix) otherwise use every reasonable effort to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make generally available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earnings statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 (which need not be audited) for the twelve-month period (A) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Transfer Restricted Securities are sold to underwriters in a firm or best efforts Underwritten Offering or (B) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Registration Statement;
 
(xx) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement required by this Agreement, and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and to execute and use every reasonable effort to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
 
(xxi) cause all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be listed on each securities exchange on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed, if any, requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes or the managing underwriter(s), if any; and
 
(xxii) provide promptly to each Holder upon request each document filed with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 and Section 15 of the Exchange Act.
 
(d) Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Transfer Restricted Security that, upon receipt of notice pursuant to Section 6(c)(iii)(D) from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof (a "Suspension Notice"), such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until (i) such Holder has received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xvi) hereof, or (ii) such Holder is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus (in each case, the "Recommencement Date"). Each Holder receiving a Suspension Notice agrees that it will either (i) destroy any Prospectuses, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession or (ii) deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that was current at the time of receipt of such Suspension Notice. In the event the Company shall give any such Suspension Notice, the time period regarding the effectiveness of such Registration Statement set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such Suspension Notice to and including the Recommencement Date; however, no such extension shall be taken into account in determining whether Additional Interest is due pursuant to Section 5 hereof or the amount of such Additional Interest, it being agreed that the Company's option to suspend use of a Registration Statement pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a Registration Default for purposes of Section 5.
 
S 7.
ECTION
Registration Expenses.
 
All expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement will be borne by the Company, regardless of whether a Registration Statement becomes effective, including without limitation: (i) all registration and filing fees and expenses (including filings, if any, made by any Initial Purchaser or Holder with the NASD (and, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" and its counsel that may be required by the rules and regulations of the NASD)); (ii) all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state Blue Sky or securities laws; (iii) all expenses of printing (including printing certificates for the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and printing of Prospectuses), messenger and delivery services and telephone; (iv) all fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company; (v) all application and filing fees in connection with listing the Exchange Notes on a national securities exchange or automated quotation system pursuant to the requirements thereof; and (vi) all fees and disbursements of independent certified public accountants of the Company (including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance).
 
The Company will, in any event, bear its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company.
 
S 8.
ECTION
Indemnification.
 
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Holder and Initial Purchaser and (ii) each person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) such Holder (any of the persons referred to in this clause (ii) being hereinafter referred to as a "controlling person") and (iii) the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, representatives and agents of any Holder or any controlling person (any person referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) may hereinafter be referred to as an "Indemnified Holder"), to the fullest extent lawful, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses (including without limitation and as incurred, reimbursement of all reasonable costs of investigating, preparing, pursuing, settling, compromising, paying or defending any claim or action, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to any Indemnified Holder), directly or indirectly caused by, related to, based upon, arising out of or in connection with any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) provided by the Company to any Holder or any prospective purchaser of Exchange Notes, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses are caused by an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission that is made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any of the Holders furnished in writing to the Company by any of the Holders expressly for use therein. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
 
(b) Each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its directors, officers of the Company who sign a Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) the Company, and the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, representatives and agents of each such person, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each of the Indemnified Holders set forth Section 8(a) above, but only with respect to information relating to such Holder furnished in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement.
 
(c) In case any action or proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation or proceeding) shall be brought or asserted against any indemnified party with respect to which indemnity may be sought hereunder, such indemnified party shall promptly notify each indemnifying party in writing (, that the failure to give such notice shall not relieve any indemnifying party of liability pursuant to Sections 8(a) and 8(b) of this Agreement unless and only to the extent such indemnifying party was materially prejudiced by such failure). Such failure to notify shall not, in any event, relieve an indemnifying party from any liability it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under Section 8(a) or 8(b), as the case may be. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action. If it so elects within a reasonable time after receipt of such notice, an indemnifying party, jointly with any other indemnifying parties receiving such notice, may assume the defense of such action with counsel chosen by it and reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified parties defendant in such action or proceeding, unless such indemnified parties object to such assumption on the ground that there may be legal defenses available to them which are different from or in addition to those available to such indemnifying party so as to create an actual or potential conflict of
provided
 
interest. If an indemnifying party assumes the defense of such action or proceeding, the indemnifying parties shall not be liable for any fees and expenses of counsel for the indemnified parties incurred thereafter in connection with such action or proceeding. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one such action or proceeding or separate but substantially similar or related actions or proceedings in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. The indemnifying party shall be liable for any settlement of any such action or proceeding effected with the indemnifying party's prior written consent, and the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless any indemnified party from and against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of any settlement of any action effected with the written consent of the indemnifying party. The indemnifying party shall not, without the prior written consent of each indemnified party, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in or otherwise seek to terminate any pending or threatened action, claim, litigation or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not any indemnified party is a party thereto), unless such settlement, compromise, consent or termination includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action, claim, litigation or proceeding.
 
(d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable to an indemnified party under Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) hereof (other than by reason of exceptions provided in those Sections) in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses referred to therein, then each applicable indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement (which in the case of the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total gross proceeds from the Initial Placement as set forth on the cover page of the Offering Memorandum), and such Registration Statement, or if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, the relative fault of the Company on the one hand, and of the Indemnified Holder, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Indemnified Holder on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Indemnified Holder and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in the second paragraph of Section 8(a), any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
 
The Company and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in
 
the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, none of the Holders (and its related Indemnified Holders) shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discount received by such Holder with respect to the Initial Notes exceeds the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8(d) are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities held by each of the Holders hereunder and not joint.
 
S 9. The Company hereby agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding and during any period in which the Company (i) is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to make available to any Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144A and (ii) is subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to make all filings required thereby in a timely manner in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144.
ECTION
Rule 144A.
 
S 10. No Holder may participate in any Underwritten Registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all reasonable questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, lock-up letters and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
ECTION
Participation in Underwritten Registrations.
 
S 11. The Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Transfer Restricted Securities in an Underwritten Offering. In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering; , that such investment bankers and managers must be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
ECTION
Selection of Underwriters.
provided
 
S 12.
ECTION
Miscellaneous.
 
(a) The Company hereby agrees that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by it of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agree to waive the defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate.
Remedies.
 
(b) The Company will not on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The Company has not previously entered into any agreement granting any registration rights with respect to its securities to any Person. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
 
(c) The Company will not take any action, or permit any change to occur, with respect to the Initial Notes on Exchange Notes that would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Holders to Consummate any Exchange Offer.
Adjustments Affecting the Initial Note on Exchange Notes.
 
(d) The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being tendered pursuant to the Exchange Offer and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other Holders whose securities are not being tendered pursuant to such Exchange Offer may be given by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being tendered or registered; provided that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser with respect to which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver, consent or departure is to be effective.
Amendments and Waivers.
 
(e) All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices.
 
(i) if to a Holder, at the address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy to the Registrar under the Indenture; and
 
(ii) if to the Company:
 
WellPoint, Inc.
120 Monument Circle
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204
Telecopier No.: (317) 488-6616
Attention: Michael C. Wyatt
 
With a copy to:
 
White & Case LLP
1155 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10036
Telecopier No.: (212) 354-8113
Attention: Daniel G. Dufner, Jr.
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
 
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the Indenture.
 
(f) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders , that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign acquired Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder; provided, further, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Transfer Restricted Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Transfer Restricted Securities shall be subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Transfer Restricted Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successors and Assigns.
provided, however
 
(g) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
(h) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
 
(i) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law.
 
(j) In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability.
 
(k) This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
The foregoing Registration Rights Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
 
 


