FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20041027061513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
 
Item 2.02Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 27, 2004, Anthem, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2004.
 
All of the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Item 9.01Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 27, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ATH) today announced third quarter 2004 net income increased to $242.1 million, or $1.70 per share, compared with net income of $196.5 million, or $1.38 per share, for the third quarter of 2003. Net income in the third quarters of 2004 and 2003 each included net realized gains of $0.03 per share.
Indianapolis, IN  October 27, 2004 
 
"We continued to expand our leading market positions with sustained enrollment growth, allowing us to further leverage administrative costs over a larger membership base. It is clear that employers and individuals across our regions value Anthem's product offerings, broad network reach, attractive discounts, and distinctive customer service," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Anthem, Inc. "While we remain very focused on delivering distinctive service to our members, we are also very committed to completing our proposed merger with WellPoint Health Networks, which will provide even greater benefits for all of our members."
 
 
Medical enrollment exceeded 12.7 million members at September 30, 2004, increasing by 890,000 members, or 8 percent, since September 30, 2003. Membership gains from National Accounts were the primary drivers of growth, including a 20 percent increase in non-BlueCard membership. Enrollment growth in the Individual and Small Group businesses complemented the National expansion. Total medical enrollment increased by 810,000 members, or 7 percent, since December 31, 2003.
Membership:
 
Operating revenue increased by 13 percent, to $4.7 billion, compared with $4.2 billion in the third quarter of 2003. The growth in revenues was attributable to disciplined pricing and solid membership gains, with the Small and Local Large Group businesses contributing most significantly to the overall increase.
Operating Revenue:
 
The benefit expense ratio increased by 170 basis points, to 82.7 percent, compared with 81.0 percent in the third quarter of 2003. The increase reflected lower than anticipated medical costs in the third quarter of 2003 and a return to more sustainable levels in the third quarter of 2004. The current quarter also included a 20 basis point benefit associated with $8.7 million in net favorable prior year reserve development.
Benefit Expense:
 
Medical cost trend for fully insured group business, on a rolling twelve month basis, remained relatively stable and is anticipated to be within prior expectations of 9.5 to 10.5 percent for the full year 2004.
Premium and Cost Trends:
 
Pricing remained disciplined and premium increases were sufficient to cover cost increases, which have been driven primarily by professional and outpatient services.
 
The administrative expense ratio improved by 180 basis points to 16.9 percent, compared with 18.7 percent in the third quarter of 2003. Focused, disciplined management of administrative expenses over a larger membership base and lower incentive compensation costs contributed to the decline.
Administrative Expense:
 
Included in the third quarter 2004 results was $5.6 million in severance expenses due to a workforce reduction made possible by continued process and productivity improvements, primarily in the East region.
 
Third quarter 2004 operating cash flow totaled $409.6 million, or 1.7 times net income.
Operating Cash Flow:
 
Days in claims payable decreased 2.0 days, to 47.2 days as of September 30, 2004, compared with 49.2 days as of June 30, 2004. The reduction was primarily attributable to adjudicating claims at a faster pace and a reduction in claim inventories.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
During the third quarter of 2004, 1.0 million shares were repurchased for $82.2 million at an average price of $82.24 per share. On October 25, 2004, Anthem's Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing an additional $500 million to purchase shares, subject to market conditions.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
 
 
Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment. Operating gain for the regional health segments in total improved 16 percent compared with the third quarter of 2003, driven by enhanced results in the National business.
Regional Health Segments:
 
Significantly improved administrative expense ratios were realized in each health segment. These improvements were partially offset by higher benefit expense ratios, which returned to more sustainable levels in the third quarter of 2004.
 
Third quarter 2004 operating gain included $8.7 million in net favorable prior year reserve development, consisting of $12.7 million in favorable development in the Midwest region and $4.0 million in unfavorable development in the East region. The net favorable prior year reserve development was partially offset by $5.6 million in severance expenses, primarily in the East region.
 
Included in the results for the third quarter of 2003 was $30.0 million of premium refunds to certain policyholders in the Southeast region and a $10.0 million contribution to the Anthem Foundation by the East region.
 
Operating gain increased by 4 percent compared with the third quarter of 2003. Strong growth in the pharmacy benefit management operation, including a 44 percent increase in mail-order prescription volume, was partially offset by results in the other Specialty businesses.
Specialty:
 
Operating loss in this segment was lower in 2004 compared with the same period of 2003, primarily due to lower incentive compensation expenses.
Other:
 
 
 
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Anthem will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time to discuss its third quarter earnings results and outlook. The conference call can be accessed by dialing 888-423-3268 (International 612-332-0630). No access-code is required. The webcast can be accessed at Anthem's web site, www.anthem.com, under Investor Relations. Please visit the website or dial in at least 15 minutes in advance. A replay of the call will be available after 12:45 p.m. today until the end of the day on November 10, 2004 by dialing 800-475-6701 (International 320-365-3844), access-code 691033.
 
 
About Anthem
 
Anthem's mission is to improve the health of the people it serves. Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana-domiciled publicly traded company that, through its subsidiary companies, provides health care benefits to more than 12.7 million people. Anthem is the fourth largest publicly traded health benefits company in the United States and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. Anthem is the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Maine, Colorado, Nevada and Virginia, excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C. Anthem had assets of $14.1 billion as of September 30, 2004, and full year 2003 revenue of $16.8 billion. More information about Anthem is available at www.anthem.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2004.
 


