FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20040727064043.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
 
On July 27, 2004, Anthem, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of that press release is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
All of the information furnished in this report and the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
The press release referred to above contain certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods in 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 27, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ATH) today announced second quarter 2004 net income increased to $237.9 million, or $1.66 per share, compared with net income of $177.3 million, or $1.25 per share, for the second quarter of 2003. Net income in the current quarter included $0.01 per share in net realized gains. The second quarter of 2003 included net realized losses of $0.05 per share.
Indianapolis, IN  July 27, 2004 
 
Net income for the first six months of 2004 increased to $533.5 million or $3.74 per share compared with net income of $369.0 million or $2.61 per share, for the first six months of 2003. Net income for the first six months of 2004 included $0.31 per share in tax benefits associated with a change in Indiana laws governing the state's high-risk health insurance pool and $0.16 per share in net realized gains. The first six months of 2003 included an $0.11 per share benefit from the resolution of a litigation matter and $0.02 per share in net realized gains.
 
"Outstanding results for the quarter once again reflect our commitment to continuous improvement and innovation in the products we offer and the service we deliver to our customers," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Anthem, Inc. "During the quarter, we realized strong revenue and earnings growth that reflected ongoing increases in membership, consistent retention levels, and continued leveraging of administrative expenses over a larger membership base," added Glasscock.
 
As previously disclosed, on July 23, 2004 the California Department of Insurance (DOI) informed the Company that it was disapproving Anthem's application to acquire control of BC Life & Health Insurance Company, a WellPoint subsidiary. In response, David Frick, Anthem's executive vice president and chief legal and administrative officer said, "We have reviewed the DOI's written decision and will promptly initiate appropriate legal proceedings to challenge it. In addition, we will consider other options that may be available to us in order to complete the merger."
 
Medical enrollment exceeded 12.6 million members at June 30, 2004, increasing by 891,000 members, or 8 percent, since June 30, 2003. In addition, enrollment increased by 705,000 members, or 6 percent, since December 31, 2003. Membership gains in National Accounts and Individual businesses were the primary drivers of growth in each period. Enrollment in self-funded health care products increased to 56 percent of total membership at June 30, 2004 compared with 53 percent at June 30, 2003.
Membership:
 
Operating revenue increased by 12 percent, to $4.5 billion, compared with $4.1 billion in the second quarter of 2003. The growth in revenues was primarily attributable to disciplined pricing and solid membership gains, partially offset by a shift in business mix towards more self-funded health care products. Small and local large group business contributed most significantly to the growth in operating revenue.
Operating Revenue:
 
The benefit expense ratio increased by 110 basis points, to 81.9 percent, compared with 80.8 percent in the second quarter of 2003. The ratio in the second quarter of 2003 reflected lower than anticipated medical costs and included an 80 basis point benefit associated with $31.7 million in net favorable prior year reserve development.
Benefit Expense:
 
Commercial premium yields increased by approximately 9 percent, while commercial medical costs increased by approximately 10 percent for the twelve month period ended June 30, 2004. Underwriting margins continued to expand, as premiums charged to customers exceeded the cost of medical care utilized by our members. Professional and outpatient services were the primary drivers of the overall increase in medical costs.
Premium and Cost Trends:
 
The administrative expense ratio improved by 150 basis points to 17.6 percent, compared with 19.1 percent in the second quarter of 2003. The decline was driven primarily by lower incentive compensation expenses and disciplined management of administrative expenses over a larger membership base. The shift in business mix towards self-funded health care products added approximately 40 basis points to the second quarter 2004 administrative expense ratio.
Administrative Expense:
 
Operating activities used $34.4 million of cash during the second quarter of 2004. Impacting the results were two estimated income tax payments totaling $238.5 million and long-term incentive compensation payments of $113.0 million associated with the three-year plan ended December 31, 2003. These items offset the strong growth in net income during the quarter.
Operating Cash Flow:
 
Days in claims payable decreased 1.7 days, to 49.2 days as of June 30, 2004, compared with 50.9 days as of March 31, 2004. The reduction was primarily attributable to adjudicating claims at a faster pace and a reduction in claims inventories.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
 
 
Each of the regional health segments reported increases in operating revenue and operating gain, which are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance of the segments. Operating gain for the regional health segments improved 14 percent compared with the second quarter of 2003 as a result of disciplined underwriting, membership growth, and leveraging of administrative expenses over a larger membership base.
Regional Health Segments:
 
Operating gain increased 14 percent compared with the second quarter of 2003. Results in this segment were driven by solid performance in the pharmacy benefit management business, including a 50 percent increase in mail-order prescription volume. The improvement was partially offset by additional investments to enhance service and functionality in the dental and behavioral health businesses.
Specialty:
 
Operating loss in this segment was lower in the second quarter of 2004 compared with the same period in 2003, primarily due to lower incentive compensation expenses.
Other:
 
 
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Anthem will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time to discuss the second quarter earnings results and 2004 outlook. The conference call can be accessed by dialing 888-423-3268 (International 612-332-0630). No access-code is required. The webcast can be accessed at Anthem's web site, www.anthem.com, under Investor Relations. Please visit the website or dial in at least 15 minutes in advance. A replay of the call will be available after 3:30 p.m. today until the end of the day on August 10, 2004 by dialing 800-475-6701 (International 320-365-3844), access-code 691032.
 
 
About Anthem
 
Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana-domiciled publicly traded company that, through its subsidiary companies, provides health care benefits to more than 12.6 million people. Anthem is the fourth largest publicly traded health benefits company in the United States and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. Anthem is the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Colorado, Nevada, Maine and Virginia, excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C. Anthem had assets of $13.7 billion as of June 30, 2004 and full year 2003 revenue of almost $16.8 billion. More information about Anthem is available at www.anthem.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2004.
 


