FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20040129061629.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 29, 2004, Anthem, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2003. A copy of that press release is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
All of the information furnished in this report and the accompanying exhibit shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
The press release referred to above contain certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2003.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 29, 2004
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthem, Inc. (NYSE: ATH) today announced fourth quarter 2003 net income increased to $208.8 million, or $1.47 per share, compared with net income of $171.9 million, or $1.19 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2002. Net income in the current quarter included $0.04 per share in net realized gains, while the fourth quarter of 2002 included $0.07 per share in net realized gains.
Indianapolis, IN  January 29, 2004 
 
Net income for full year 2003 increased 41 percent, to $774.3 million, or $5.45 per share, compared with net income of $549.1 million, or $4.51 per share in 2002. Net income in 2003 included $0.07 per share in net realized gains, and an $0.11 per share benefit from the resolution of a litigation matter. Net income for 2002 included $0.17 per share in net realized gains and $0.22 per share in favorable federal income tax benefits associated with a reduction in the company's tax valuation allowance.
 
"During 2003 we focused on our mission to improve the health of our members, while taking a leadership role nationally in forming collaborations with physicians and hospitals. We introduced new products at compelling and affordable price points, and worked hard to provide even better customer service," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Anthem, Inc. "As a result, more Americans chose Anthem for their health benefits than ever before. We attracted a record number of new members and retained approximately 90 percent of our existing customer base. We intend to expand these efforts further in 2004 to meet the needs and expectations of our current and new members."
 
 
Medical enrollment exceeded 11.9 million members at December 31, 2003, increasing by 874,000 members, or 8 percent, since December 31, 2002. Membership gains in National Accounts and Individual businesses were the primary drivers of growth. These results reflected significant enrollment gains in each region. The proportion of members enrolled in self-funded health care products increased to 54 percent at December 31, 2003 compared with 51 percent at December 31, 2002, and was influenced by a 14 percent growth in self-funded membership during 2003.
Membership:
Operating revenue increased to $4.2 billion compared with $3.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2002. The growth was primarily attributable to disciplined pricing and solid membership gains, partially offset by a shift in business mix towards more self-funded health care products. Operating revenue increased 27 percent to almost $16.5 billion for the full year 2003. Excluding the impact of the Trigon acquisition on July 31, 2002, operating revenue increased over 10 percent for the full year 2003.
Operating Revenue:
 
The benefit expense ratio improved by 140 basis points, to 79.5 percent, compared with 80.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002. The improvement was primarily driven by lower than anticipated medical costs. For the full year 2003, the benefit expense ratio improved by 160 basis points to 80.8 percent.
Benefit Expense:
 
Commercial premium yields increased by approximately 10 percent for the year ended December 31, 2003, while commercial medical costs increased by approximately 9 percent during the same period. Professional and outpatient services continue to be the primary drivers of the overall increase in medical costs.
Premium and Cost Trends:
 
The administrative expense ratio remained constant at 19.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2003, compared with the fourth quarter of 2002. The shift in business mix towards more self-funded health care products added approximately 60 basis points to the fourth quarter 2003 administrative expense ratio. Also impacting the fourth quarter of 2003 were higher insurance costs and expenses associated with strategic initiatives to improve member health and optimize the cost of care, particularly in the East and Southeast regions. For the full year 2003, the administrative expense ratio was 18.9 percent, an improvement of 40 basis points compared with 19.3 percent in 2002.
Administrative Expense:
 
Operating cash flow of $417.7 million for the fourth quarter of 2003 was 2.0 times net income. Cash flow for the full year 2003 was $1,143.4 million, or 1.5 times net income.
Operating Cash Flow:
 
Days in claims payable increased 1.2 days, to 54.4 days as of December 31, 2003, compared with September 30, 2003.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
During the quarter, 1.1 million shares were repurchased for $73.3 million at an average price of $68.55 per share. For the full year 2003, 3.4 million shares were repurchased for $217.2 million at an average price of $64.06 per share.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
 
 
Each of the regional health segments reported increases in operating revenue and operating gain, which is the measure used by management to evaluate performance of the operating segments. Operating gain for the regional health segments improved 27 percent compared with the fourth quarter of 2002, as a result of disciplined pricing actions, moderating medical costs, and profitable membership growth.
Regional Health Segments:
 
Operating gain increased 78 percent compared with the fourth quarter of 2002, primarily due to mail order prescription volume that increased by 23 percent, as well as improved results in the behavioral health operations. Start-up and integration expenses associated with the vision and dental operations continued to negatively impact overall Specialty operating gain
Specialty:
.
 
Operating loss was higher in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002, primarily due to various operating expenditures that individually had minimal impact on the results.
Other:
 
 
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Anthem will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET) to discuss the fourth quarter earnings results and 2004 outlook. The conference call can be accessed by dialing 877-209-9919 (International 612-332-0630). No access-code is required. The webcast can be accessed at Anthem's web site, www.anthem.com, under Investor Relations. Please visit the website or dial in at least 15 minutes in advance. A replay of the call will be available after 1:45 p.m. today until the end of the day on February 12, 2004 by dialing 800-475-6701 (International 320-365-3844), access-code 691030.
 
 
About Anthem
 
Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana-domiciled publicly traded company that, through its subsidiary companies, provides health care benefits to more than 11.9 million people. Anthem is the fourth largest publicly traded health benefits company in the United States and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. Anthem is the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Colorado, Nevada, Maine and Virginia, excluding the immediate suburbs of Washington, D.C. Anthem had assets of $13.4 billion as of December 31, 2003 and full year 2003 revenue of almost $16.8 billion. More information about Anthem is available at www.anthem.com.
 
 
 
(In Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about Anthem, Inc. ("Anthem") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by Anthem; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors;
 
introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to consummate Anthem's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc., to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Anthem does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in Anthem's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2003.
 
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
 
This press release may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the proposed merger of Anthem and WellPoint Health Networks, Inc. ("WellPoint"). Anthem has filed on November 26, 2003 a preliminary registration statement on Form S-4, including the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus constituting a part thereof, with the SEC in connection with Anthem's proposed merger with WellPoint. Anthem will file a final registration statement, including a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus constituting a part thereof, and other documents with the SEC.
SHAREHOLDERS OF ANTHEM AND STOCKHOLDERS OF WELLPOINT ARE ENCOURAGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, INCLUDING THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS THAT WILL BE PART OF THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER.
The final joint proxy statement prospectus will be mailed to shareholders of Anthem and stockholders of WellPoint. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain the documents free of charge at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov, from Anthem Investor Relations at 120 Monument Circle, Indianapolis, IN 46204-4903, or from WellPoint Investor Relations at 1 WellPoint Way, Thousand Oaks, CA 91362.
 
 
PARTICIPANTS IN SOLICITATION
 
Anthem, WellPoint and their directors and executive officers and other members of their management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Anthem's Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the SEC on October 27, 2003, contains information regarding Anthem's participants and their interests in the solicitation. Information concerning WellPoint's participants is set forth in the proxy statement, dated March 31, 2003, for WellPoint's 2003 annual meeting of stockholders as filed with the SEC on Schedule 14A. Additional information regarding the interests of Anthem's and WellPoint's participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction will be included in the registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus to be filed with the SEC.
 


