FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20050727062459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
 
 
On July 27, 2005, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 27, 2005
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 July 27, 2005  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that second quarter 2005 net income was $559.4 million, or $0.90 per share, including expenses of $0.10 per share related to the previously announced agreement that resolved two national multi-district lawsuits with physicians. Earnings exceeded previous expectations on a split adjusted basis by $0.04 per share due to effective cost management and higher net investment income. Net income for the second quarter of 2004 was $237.9 million, or $0.83 per share.
Indianapolis, IN
 
"We are delivering on all of our initiatives designed to ultimately provide our customers with more solutions to meet their health care needs," said Larry C. Glasscock, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "Our efforts are reflected in the membership growth we continue to see and the gains we have realized in all of our business segments. We expect to realize growth across our operations as we continue to enhance our capabilities, expand our product offerings and excel in meeting our customers' needs and expectations."
 
 
On November 30, 2004, Anthem, Inc. acquired WellPoint Health Networks Inc. and Anthem, Inc. changed its name to WellPoint, Inc. Accordingly, second quarter and year-to-date 2005 financial results include operations of both legacy companies for the entire periods. Second quarter and year-to-date 2004 financial results, however, only include operations of the former Anthem, Inc.
 
Unless otherwise indicated, the analysis in this press release compares reported financial results, as reclassified to conform to current presentation, and does not adjust results for the effects of the acquisition.
 
In certain areas, we have included "comparable basis" analyses that we believe provide more meaningful comparisons between periods, due to the inclusion of operations for the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. in the comparable, historical results. The comparable, historical information is not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported had the acquisition been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative or indicative of our future results. The methodologies for calculating
 
the comparable, historical information are either described within the text of the press release, or in the tables at the end of the press release where such comparable, historical information is reconciled to the historical GAAP information of the former Anthem, Inc. and the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. Comparable, historical information and reconciliations for the quarterly and year-to-date periods ended March 31, 2004, and September 30, 2004, are available at under "Investor Info."
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
Medical enrollment exceeded 28.8 million members at June 30, 2005, an increase of 16.2 million members since June 30, 2004.
Membership:
 
On a comparable basis, medical enrollment grew by 1.6 million members, or 6 percent, compared with 27.3 million members at June 30, 2004. Membership gains were realized across all customer types, led by the National Accounts and Large Group businesses, which added approximately 700,000 and 500,000 members, respectively. Strong growth of over 250,000 members was also achieved in the Individual and Small Group (ISG) operations. Self-funded membership increased by 1.2 million members, while fully insured enrollment grew by 358,000 members.
 
The Company added 322,000 members during the second quarter of 2005, including 177,000 members acquired through the Lumenos transaction. For the first half of 2005, medical enrollment increased by over 1.1 million members.
 
Operating revenue surpassed $11.1 billion, an increase of 146 percent from $4.5 billion in the same period of 2004.
Operating Revenue:
 
Operating revenue increased by $837.1 million on a comparable basis, representing growth of 8 percent, compared with $10.3 billion in the second quarter of 2004. The increase was driven primarily by strong membership gains and disciplined pricing in the ISG and Large Group businesses.
 
The benefit expense ratio was 81.1 percent, a decrease of 70 basis points, compared with 81.8 percent in the second quarter of 2004.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
 
On a comparable basis, the benefit expense ratio was equal to the second quarter 2004 ratio, reflecting disciplined pricing to cover medical cost trends.
 
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Large Group and ISG fully insured businesses and are calculated on a comparable basis, including the former Anthem, Inc. and the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. for all applicable periods.
 
The Company continues to believe that full year 2005 medical cost trend will be less than 9 percent and that commercial premium yield will at least equal total cost trend, where total cost trend includes medical costs and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense. Outpatient and inpatient costs are expected to be the primary drivers of the overall medical cost trend.
 
The SG&A expense ratio decreased by 90 basis points, to 16.5 percent, compared with 17.4 percent in the second quarter of 2004. The current quarter ratio included an unfavorable impact of approximately 70 basis points as a result of the multi-district agreement.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
 
On a comparable basis, the second quarter 2004 SG&A expense ratio was 16.5 percent. The Company continued to control administrative costs across its growing membership base, holding the SG&A ratio constant year-over-year, despite the 70 basis point impact of the multi-district agreement. During the second quarter, the Company achieved its targeted merger synergies of at least $35.0 million, net of the costs incurred to achieve those synergies.
 
Operating cash flow reached $654.1 million, or 1.2 times net income.
Operating Cash Flow:
 
Days in claims payable decreased by 0.7 days to 46.7 days as of June 30, 2005, compared with 47.4 days as of March 31, 2005. The decrease resulted primarily from operational efficiencies, including increased automation that allowed the Company to further reduce the length of time between the date of service and claim payment. Payments of risk pool settlements to HMO physicians, related to 2004 performance incentives, also contributed to the decline.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
During the second quarter, 3.7 million shares were repurchased for $244.9 million. The Company invested $333.4 million during the first six months of 2005 to repurchase a total of 5.1 million shares. As of June 30, 2005, approximately $367.1 million remained available for share repurchase under the existing authorization.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has three reportable segments: Health Care, Specialty and Other. Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
 
 
Operating gain for the Health Care segment was $785.6 million, an increase of 137 percent, compared with $332.1 million in the prior year period. Current quarter operating gain included expenses of $103.0 million due to the multi-district agreement.
Health Care:
 
On a comparable basis, operating gain increased by $51.3 million, or 7 percent, compared with $734.3 million in the prior year period. The improvement was driven primarily by strong membership growth and efficiencies realized in the management of our administrative cost structure, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the multi-district agreement. Performance was particularly strong in the ISG businesses, where significant progress was made during the quarter in expanding successful sales and marketing practices throughout the Company. These efforts included a new regional sales management structure that was implemented in Colorado and Nevada.
 
Operating gain reached $92.1 million, an increase of 403 percent, compared with $18.3 million in the second quarter of 2004.
Specialty:
 
Operating gain increased by 9 percent on a comparable basis, from $84.3 million in the second quarter of 2004. The improved performance resulted primarily from the pharmacy benefit management (PBM) operation. Customers continue to be attracted to the Company's state-of-the-art PBM that includes excellent drug discounts and market-leading tools to assist clients in predicting and managing medical trend through pharmaceutical intervention.
 
 
Full year 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to discuss its second quarter earnings results and outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 779651. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on August 10, 2005. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
 
Contacts:
 
Investor Relations
Tami Durle, 317-488-6390
 
Media
James Kappel, 317-488-6400
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
 
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest publicly traded commercial health benefits company in terms of membership in the United States. WellPoint, Inc. is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through HealthLink and UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at
www.wellpoint.com.
 
 
Medical Membership
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medical Membership
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the supplemental statistics listed in footnotes 3, 4 and 5 to the table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable." These supplemental statistics are not calculated in accordance with GAAP and are not intended to be alternatives to any measure or statistic calculated in accordance with GAAP. Rather, these supplemental statistics are intended to facilitate understanding of the effects that recent acquisitions have had on the reconciliation of medical claims payable.
 
Footnote 3:
Current year paid as a percent of current year incurred - year ended December 31, 2004
 
 
 
Footnote 4:
Prior year incurred redundancies in the current period as a percent of prior year incurred claims - six months ended June 30, 2005.
 
 
 
Footnote 5:
Prior year incurred redundancies in the current period as a percent of prior year incurred claims - year ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, Inc., that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint, Inc. (formerly named Anthem, Inc.) ("WellPoint") and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WellPoint Health"); trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellPoint Health merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's various SEC reports, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2005.
 
 


