FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20051228172904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
 
On December 28, 2005 (the "Bridge Loan Closing Date"), WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company" or "WellPoint") entered into a Loan Agreement, dated as of the Bridge Loan Closing Date, among the Company, each lender from time to time party thereto, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch Bank USA as Co-Documentation Agents, Banc of America Securities LLC and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners, L.P., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, under which the Company incurred an aggregate principal amount equal to $3.0 billion of term loans (the "Loan Agreement"). Once borrowed, loans made under the Loan Agreement (the "Loans") may not be repaid and reborrowed. The Company entered into the Loan Agreement to provide short-term financing, in part, for the Merger (as hereinafter defined) and to pay fees and expenses in connection therewith. All of the obligations of the Company under the Loan Agreement are guaranteed (the "Guaranty") by Anthem Holding Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Anthem Holdings").
 
WellPoint intends to obtain permanent or long-term financing for part of the cash portion of the consideration to be paid in connection with the Merger initially provided pursuant to the Loan Agreement, through a combination of (1) the issuance of commercial paper and/or borrowings under the 5-Year Credit Agreement (which agreement was previously defined and described in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on December 2, 2005); and (2) the issuance of up to $3.2 billion of long-term debt securities. The ultimate mix of commercial paper, bank debt and long-term debt securities will be determined based on market conditions and other financial factors.
 
The Loan Agreement contained certain conditions to the Company's ability to incur the Loans which were incurred on the Bridge Loan Closing Date, each of which were satisfied and/or waived in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement. These conditions included: (a) minimum public debt ratings of not less than BBB from Standard & Poor's and Baa2 from Moody's on the Bridge Loan Closing Date; (b) accuracy in all material respects of all information (taken as a whole) made available to the agents or lenders by or on behalf of the Company or any of its representatives in connection with the negotiation of the Loan Agreement and the commitments therefor and such information did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading; (c) a minimum total debt to capital ratio of not more than 40% (determined on a pro forma basis to give effect to the Merger); (d) minimum liquidity requirements of at least $500,000,000 (in cash and cash equivalents); (e) satisfaction by the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers of the final terms and conditions (and each material aspect) of the Merger with certain previously agreed upon exceptions; (f) since December 31, 2004, no changes, occurrences or developments shall have occurred regarding the Company, WellChoice (as hereinafter defined), any of their respective subsidiaries or the transactions contemplated by the Loan Agreement (including the Merger) that, either individually or in the aggregate, have had a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial
 
condition of the Company and its subsidiaries (which for such purpose included WellChoice and its subsidiaries), taken as a whole (with certain previously agreed upon exceptions); (g) the representations and warranties of the Company and Anthem Holdings being true and correct in all material respects, which representations and warranties included: (1) the receipt of all government, shareholder and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the performance and enforceability of the Company's and Anthem Holdings' obligations under the 5-Year Credit Agreement and the Guaranty; (2) compliance by the Company and its subsidiaries with laws and material agreements; (3) delivery of financial statements when due under the 5-Year Credit Agreement; (h) the absence of any default under the 5-Year Credit Agreement at the time any loans or other extensions of credit are made thereunder or would result from the making of such loans or other extensions of credit; and (i) the satisfaction of such other conditions as are customary for transactions of this nature.
 
The Company may elect for Loans incurred under the Loan Agreement to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the Eurodollar rate (as in effect from time to time for the relevant interest period) plus an applicable margin, ranging from 0.30% to 0.625%, based upon the debt rating of the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt or (ii) a base rate option. The final maturity of the Loan Agreement is 364 days from the Bridge Loan Closing Date. The Loan Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants for transactions of this nature regarding, among other things, the Company's use of proceeds, delivery of financial and other information to the lenders, maintenance of records, compliance with law, maintenance of property and insurance and conduct of business. The Loan Agreement also contains certain customary negative covenants for transactions of this nature limiting the ability of the Company and/or its subsidiaries to, among other things, enter into transactions with affiliates, incur debt, materially change its corporate structure, dispose of assets and requiring the Company to maintain a total debt to capital ratio of not more than 40%. The foregoing limitations are subject to certain customary exceptions for transactions of this nature. The Loan Agreement includes events of default (and related remedies, including acceleration of the Loans made thereunder) usual for facilities of this type, including payment default, covenant default (including breaches of the covenants described above), material inaccuracy of representations and warranties, bankruptcy and involuntary proceedings, change of control, default under other agreements and judgment default. Many of the defaults are subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods consistent with transactions of this nature.
 
The agents and the lenders under the Loan Agreement and their affiliates have provided, and future lenders under the Loan Agreement may provide, various investment banking, other commercial banking and/or financial advisory services to WellPoint for which they have received, and will in the future receive, customary fees.
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
 
On September 27, 2005, the Company, WellPoint Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), and WellChoice, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WellChoice"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the
 
"Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which WellChoice would merge with and into Merger Sub (the "Merger"), with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving corporation.
 
On December 28, 2005, the Merger was consummated. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of WellChoice common stock was converted into the right to receive $38.25 in cash and 0.5191 shares of WellPoint common stock.
 
The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement and a press release, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 2.1 and 99.1, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
On December 28, 2005 the Company (1) incurred an aggregate principal amount of $1.7 billion of Loans under the Loan Agreement and (2) issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion of commercial paper under its commercial paper program (which commercial paper program was previously described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2003 and is backed by the Company's 5-Year Credit Agreement). The proceeds of the Loans and such commercial paper were, in each case, used to finance in part the Merger and to pay fees and expenses in connection therewith.
 
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management
 
 
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the consummation of the Merger, Mr. John E. Zuccotti was elected to the Company's Board, effective at the effective time of the Merger.
 
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(a) Financial Statements of the Business Acquired
 
The following information was filed as part of WellChoice's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 (File No. 001-31513) and is incorporated herein by reference:
 
 -    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 -    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
 -    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003
 
 -    Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
 
 -    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
 
 -    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
 
 -    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
The following information was filed as part of WellChoice's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 (File No. 001-31513) and is incorporated herein by reference:
 
 -    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2005 (unaudited) and December 31, 2004
 
 -    Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2005
    and September 30, 2004
 
 -    Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2004
 
 -    Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 -    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
The following information was filed as part of WellChoice's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 001-31513) and is incorporated herein by reference:
 
 -    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2004 (unaudited) and December 31, 2003
 
 -    Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2004
    and September 30, 2003
 
 -    Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and September 30, 2003
 
 -    Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 -    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:   December 28, 2005
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 15.1
 
 
To the Board of Directors of
WellChoice, Inc.
 
We are aware of the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-4) of WellPoint, Inc. for the registration of 47,911,988 shares of its common stock of our reports dated October 10, 2005 and October 14, 2004 relating to the unaudited consolidated interim financial statements of WellChoice, Inc. that are included in its Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2004.
 
 
New York, New York
December 28, 2005

EXHIBIT 23.1
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-4) and related Prospectus of WellPoint, Inc. for the registration of 47,911,988 shares of its common stock of our reports dated February 14, 2005, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedules of WellChoice, Inc., WellChoice, Inc. management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of WellChoice, Inc., incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
New York, New York
December 28, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) and WellChoice, Inc. (NYSE: WC) announced the completion of their merger today. The companies' agreement to merge was announced September 27, 2005. Under the terms of the agreement, WellChoice stockholders will receive $38.25 in cash and WellPoint stock at a fixed exchange ratio of .5191 of a share of WellPoint stock for each share of WellChoice stock. The value of the transaction as of September 26, 2005, was approximately $6.5 billion.
Indianapolis, IN and New York City, NY
December 28, 2005
 
"Our focus as a combined company is to become the most trusted choice for consumers and a leader in affordable quality care," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We will accomplish this through continuous innovation and investment in our products and services that enable consumers to make better informed health decisions and through working collaboratively with health care professionals in order to improve the safety and quality of care patients receive."
 
Michael Stocker, M.D., president and chief executive officer of WellChoice, now serves as president and chief executive officer of the newly formed East Region of WellPoint. He has responsibility for business operations in New York, Connecticut, Georgia, Maine, New Hampshire and Virginia. He will also serve on WellPoint's Executive Leadership Team and report to Glasscock.
 
"The completion of this merger is very good news for all of our constituencies as WellPoint is uniquely positioned to become the most valued company in our industry," said Michael Stocker, M.D., president and chief executive officer of WellPoint's East Region. "Our objective, within the new East Region and across our company, is to further build a highly customer-focused and efficient organization, based upon our local market expertise and our regional and enterprise best practices."
 
WellPoint, Inc. now serves approximately 34 million medical members through its Blue Cross or Blue Cross and Blue Shield operations in 14 states and its non-Blue branded operations in other states. The company now has over 42,000 associates nationwide.
 
John E. Zuccotti, who served on the WellChoice Board of Directors, will now join the WellPoint Board. Zuccotti is currently the Chairman of Brookfield Financial Properties and Of Counsel at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP. A significant portion of his career has been in public service roles including serving as the First Deputy Mayor of the City of New York under Mayor Abraham D. Beame.
"We are delighted that John Zuccotti will be joining the WellPoint Board. We look forward to benefiting from his keen insights, deep track record of leadership and public service experience," added Glasscock.
 
WellPoint, Inc. expects earnings in 2006 to reach approximately $4.51 per share. Approximately $25 million in synergies are expected to be realized in 2006 from the merger and at least $125 million in annual synergies are expected to be realized beginning in 2010. This transaction is expected to be neutral to 2006 earnings per share and accretive thereafter. Further details on 2006 guidance reflecting the impact of the WellChoice merger will be provided during the company's fourth quarter earnings conference call.
 
Contacts:
 
Investor Relations
Tami Durle, (317) 488-6390
 
Media
Ed West, (317) 488-6100
Deborah Loeb Bohren, (212) 476-3552
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
 
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest publicly traded commercial health benefits company in terms of membership in the United States. WellPoint, Inc. is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan counties and as Blue Cross, Blue Shield or Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at.
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
This filing contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint"), WellChoice, Inc. ("WellChoice") and the combined company after completion of the transactions that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint and WellChoice, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint (formerly Anthem, Inc.), WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WellPoint Health") and WellChoice; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; other potential uses of cash in the future that present attractive alternatives to share repurchases; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellPoint Health merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; our ability to consummate WellPoint's merger with WellChoice, to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all, to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Neither WellPoint nor WellChoice undertakes any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's and WellChoice's various SEC reports, including but not limited to Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2005.
 


