FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20051202172635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Amended and Restated 5-Year Credit Agreement
 
On November 29, 2005, WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company" or "WellPoint") entered into an Amended and Restated 5-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2005, among the Company, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. New York Branch, UBS Loan Finance LLC, Wachovia Bank, National Association and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Co-Documentation Agents and Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, under which WellPoint can, from time to time, borrow up to an aggregate principal amount of $2.5 billion and have letters of credit issued for its account up to an aggregate stated amount of $200 million (the "5-Year Credit Agreement"). The Company entered into the 5-Year Credit Agreement (i) for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions and to provide for its working capital requirements and (ii) to replace WellPoint's previously existing 5-year credit facility and previously existing 364-day credit facility, which agreements were previously described in the Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 24, 2004. All of the obligations of the Company under the 5-Year Credit Agreement are guaranteed (the "Guaranty") by Anthem Holding Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Anthem Holdings").
 
The 5-Year Credit Agreement contains certain conditions to the Company's ability to incur loans and have letters of credit issued for its account thereunder, which include (a) the representations and warranties of the Company and Anthem Holdings being true and correct in all material respects, which representations and warranties include: (1) the receipt of all government, shareholder and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the performance and enforceability of the Company's and Anthem Holdings' obligations under the 5-Year Credit Agreement and the Guaranty; (2) compliance by the Company and its subsidiaries with laws and material agreements; (3) delivery of financial statements when due under the 5-Year Credit Agreement; and (4) such other conditions as are customary for a transaction of this nature; and (b) the absence of any default under the 5-Year Credit Agreement at the time any loans or other extensions of credit are made thereunder or would result from the making of such loans or other extensions of credit.
 
The Company may elect for loans incurred under the 5-Year Credit Agreement to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the Eurodollar rate (as in effect from time to time for the relevant interest period) plus an applicable margin, ranging from 0.060% to 0.125%, based upon the debt rating of the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt or (ii) a base rate option. The final maturity of the 5-Year Credit Agreement is five years from the closing date of the 5-Year Credit Agreement. The 5-Year Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants for transactions of this nature regarding, among other things, the Company's use of proceeds, delivery of financial and other information to the lenders, maintenance of records, compliance with law, maintenance of property and insurance and conduct of business. The 5-Year Credit Agreement also contains certain customary negative covenants for transactions of
 
this nature limiting the ability of the Company and/or its subsidiaries to, among other things, enter into transactions with affiliates, incur debt, materially change its corporate structure, dispose of assets and requiring the Company to maintain a total debt to capital ratio of not more than 40%. The foregoing limitations are subject to certain customary exceptions for transactions of this nature. The 5-Year Credit Agreement includes events of default (and related remedies, including acceleration of the loans made thereunder) usual for facilities of this type, including payment default, covenant default (including breaches of the covenants described above), material inaccuracy of representations and warranties, bankruptcy and involuntary proceedings, change of control, default under other agreements and judgment default. Many of the defaults are subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods consistent with transactions of this nature.
 
The agents and the lenders under the 5-Year Credit Agreement and their affiliates have provided, and future lenders under the 5-Year Credit Agreement may provide, various investment banking, other commercial banking and/or financial advisory services to WellPoint for which they have received, and will in the future receive, customary fees.
 
WellPoint Executive Severance Plan
 
On November 29, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") approved the WellPoint, Inc. Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2006. The Plan is intended to protect key executive employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates against an involuntary loss of employment so as to attract and retain such employees, and motivate them to enhance the value of the Company. The Plan will be administered by a committee appointed by the Company's Chief Executive Officer.
 
Key executive employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, including each vice president, senior vice president, executive vice president and any other key executive selected by the Company's Chief Executive Officer, are eligible to participate in the Plan. There are currently no participants in the Plan. An eligible executive will only become a participant in the Plan upon his or her execution of an employment agreement with the Company. In general, the terms of the Plan will replace a participant's pre-existing agreements for employment, severance or change in control benefits, or restrictive covenants. However, certain Company executives who become participants in the Plan before their existing severance protection expires will be entitled to the larger of their existing severance protection or the Plan's severance protection.
 
Severance pay and benefits are triggered under the Plan upon a termination of a participant's employment by the Company for any reason other than death, disability, "cause," or a "transfer of business," each as defined in the Plan. Severance pay and benefits will also be provided under the Plan (at enhanced levels for each participant who is a vice president, senior vice president or executive vice president) upon a termination of a participant's employment (i) by the Company for any reason other than death, disability, cause, or a transfer of business, during certain periods prior to, or the thirty-six (36) month period after, a "change in control," as defined in the Plan, or (ii) by the participant for "good reason," as defined in the Plan, during the thirty-six (36) month period after a change in control.
 
In the event that severance pay and benefits are triggered, an eligible participant will be entitled, among other things, to receive severance pay in an amount equal to the participant's applicable severance multiplier times the sum of the participant's annual salary and annual target bonus, payable in equal installments over the participant's applicable severance period; continued participation in the Company's health and life insurance benefit plans during the severance period; continuation of certain executive compensation perquisite payments and benefits during the severance period; cash payments equivalent to Company tax-qualified retirement and supplemental retirement plan contributions for the participant during the severance period; and outplacement services. For participants who are executive vice presidents, the applicable severance multiplier is two (increased to three when enhanced severance is paid in circumstances relating to a change in control, as described above) and the severance period is two years (increased to three years when such enhanced severance is paid).
 
Other severance benefits triggered by qualifying terminations of employment after a change in control include a pro-rata bonus for the year of termination and accelerated vesting of certain equity grants. The annual bonus of each participant for the year of a change of control is guaranteed to be the greater of the participant's target bonus for that year or the amount earned under the bonus plan formulas. The Plan further provides that, in the event of certain corporate transactions, if an acquiring company does not assume Company equity grants, the grants will vest and become payable upon the corporate transaction. Participants who are executive vice presidents or senior vice presidents may also, in certain circumstances, be entitled to full tax gross-ups for taxes on excess parachute payments.
 
The Plan payments and benefits of each participant are conditioned upon the participant's compliance with restrictive covenants and execution of a release of claims against the Company. The Plan provides that if a participant breaches any restrictive covenant or fails to provide the required cooperation, (i) such participant shall repay to the Company any severance benefits previously received, as well as an amount equal to the fair market value of restricted stock vested and gain on stock options exercised within the twenty-four month period prior to such breach, (ii) no further severance pay or benefits shall be provided to such participant, and (iii) all outstanding unexercised stock options and unvested restricted stock shall be cancelled and forfeited.
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02(b)(d)Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On November 29, 2005, Leonard D. Schaeffer resigned as a Director of the Company. Mr. Schaeffer served as the Chairman of the Board.
 
On November 30, 2005 the Company announced the election by the Board of Larry C. Glasscock to succeed Mr. Schaeffer as Chairman of the Board. Mr. Glasscock will now serve as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
 
The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03Amendments to Articles of Incorporate or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On November 30, 2005, the Board of the Company adopted an amendment to the Company's Bylaws in order to reflect the transfer of responsibility for determining non-employee director compensation from the Compensation Committee of the Board to the Governance Committee of the Board. The amendment took effect upon adoption by the Board.
 
The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Company's Bylaws, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 7Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Officers of the Company expect to meet with securities analysts and investors during the period commencing on December 2, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2005. During these meetings, the officers expect to confirm the Company's ability to meet the earnings expectations given in a press release and conference call on October 26, 2005. A copy of that press release was attached as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K furnished by the Company to the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2005.
 
All of the information furnished in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 2, 2005
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. . Annual meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held each year commencing in 2002, on such date, at such hour and at such place within or without the State of Indiana as shall be designated by the Board of Directors. In the absence of designation, the meeting shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 1.1
Annual Meetings
 
. . Special meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, as the case may be, calling a special meeting of shareholders shall set the date, time and place of such meeting, which may be held within or without the State of Indiana.
Section 1.2
Special Meetings
 
. . A written notice, stating the date, time, and place of any meeting of the shareholders, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, shall be delivered, mailed or sent by electronic transmission by the Secretary of the Corporation, to each shareholder of record of the Corporation entitled to notice of or to vote at such meeting no fewer than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting. Notice of shareholders' meetings, if mailed, shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each shareholder at his or her address shown in the Corporation's current record of shareholders.
Section 1.3
Notices
 
Notice of a meeting of shareholders shall be given to shareholders not entitled to vote, but only if a purpose for the meeting is to vote on any amendment to the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, merger, or share exchange to which the Corporation would be a party, sale of the Corporation's assets, dissolution of the Corporation, or consideration of voting rights to be accorded to shares acquired or to be acquired in a "control share acquisition" (as such term is defined in the Indiana Business Corporation Law). Except as required by the foregoing sentence or as otherwise required by the Indiana Business Corporation Law or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, notice of a meeting of shareholders is required to be given only to shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting.
A shareholder or his or her proxy may at any time waive notice of a meeting if the waiver is in writing and is delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the Corporation's records. A shareholder's attendance at a meeting, whether in person or by proxy, (a) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder or his proxy at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (b) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder or his proxy objects to considering the matter when it is presented. Each shareholder who has, in the manner above provided, waived notice or objection to notice of a shareholders' meeting shall be conclusively presumed to have been given due notice of such meeting, including the purpose or purposes thereof.
 
If an annual or special shareholders' meeting is adjourned to a different date, time, or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time, or place if the new date, time, or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment, unless a new record date is or must be established for the adjourned meeting.
 
. . At each annual meeting, the shareholders shall elect the directors and shall conduct only such other business as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a shareholder of the Corporation who (i) was a shareholder of record at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Section 1.4, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.4. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive office of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting and in the case of the annual meeting to be held in 2002, by January 31, 2002; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement (as defined herein) of the date of such meeting is first made.
Section 1.4
Business of Shareholder Meetings
 
Such shareholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner,
 
if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and the name and address of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner as of the date such notice is given, and (iii) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business; (c) in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend either the Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment; and (d) if the shareholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such shareholder's proposal, a representation to that effect. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a shareholder if the shareholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting and such shareholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by management of the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting; provided, however, that if such shareholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such annual meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with this Section 1.4, and the Chairman of the Board or other person presiding at an annual meeting of shareholders may refuse to permit any business to be brought before an annual meeting without compliance with the foregoing procedures or if the shareholder solicits proxies in support of such shareholder's proposal without such shareholder having made the representation required by clause (d) of the second preceding sentence.
 
For the purposes of this Section 1.4, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In addition to the provisions of this Section 1.4, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth herein. Nothing in these By-Laws shall be deemed to affect any rights of the shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
 
In no event shall the adjournment of a meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
 
. . Nominations of persons for election as Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 1.5 and who is entitled to vote in the election of Directors. Any shareholder of record entitled to vote in the election of Directors at a meeting may nominate a person or persons for election as Directors only if timely written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination is given to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with the procedures for bringing business before an annual meeting set forth in Section 1.4 of these By-Laws. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of shareholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first
Section 1.5
Notice of Shareholder Nominations
 
anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting and in the case of the annual meeting to be held in 2002, by January 31, 2002; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement (as defined for purposes of Section 1.4 of these By-Laws) is first made of the date of such meeting, and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of shareholders, not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees to be elected at such meeting.
 
Such shareholder's notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the shareholder who intends to make the nomination, of the person or persons to be nominated and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made; (b) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting in such election and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the shareholder, any such beneficial owner, each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director if so elected; and (f) if the shareholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The chairman of any meeting of shareholders to elect Directors and the Board of Directors may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the shareholder solicits proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee(s) without such shareholder having made the representation required by clause (f) of the preceding sentence. In addition to the provisions of this Section 1.5, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth herein.
 
. . Except as otherwise provided by the Indiana Business Corporation Law or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, each share of Common Stock of the Corporation that is outstanding at the record date established for any annual or special meeting of shareholders and is outstanding at the time of and represented in person or by proxy at the annual or special meeting, shall entitle the record holder thereof, or his proxy, to one (1) vote on each matter voted on at the meeting.
Section 1.6
Voting
 
. . Unless the Indiana Business Corporation Law provides otherwise, at all meetings of shareholders, twenty-five percent (25%) of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for action on the matter. Action may be taken at a shareholders' meeting only on matters with respect to which a quorum
Section 1.7
Quorum
 
exists; provided, however, that any meeting of shareholders, including annual and special meetings and any adjournments thereof, may be adjourned to a later date although less than a quorum is present. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting.
 
. . If a quorum exists as to a matter to be considered at a meeting of shareholders, action on such matter (other than the election of Directors) is approved if the votes properly cast favoring the action exceed the votes properly cast opposing the action, except as the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or the Indiana Business Corporation Law require a greater number of affirmative votes. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes properly cast.
Section 1.8
Vote Required To Take Action
 
. . Only such persons shall be entitled to notice of or to vote, in person or by proxy, at any shareholders' meeting as shall appear as shareholders upon the books of the Corporation as of such record date as the Board of Directors shall determine, which date may not be earlier than the date seventy (70) days immediately preceding the meeting. In the absence of such determination, the record date shall be the fiftieth (50th) day immediately preceding the date of such meeting. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, shareholders shall be determined as of the close of business on the record date.
Section 1.9
Record Date
 
. . A shareholder may vote his or her shares either in person or by proxy. A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for the shareholder (including authorizing the proxy to receive, or to waive, notice of any shareholders' meeting within the effective period of such proxy) by signing an appointment form, either personally or by the shareholder's attorney-in-fact. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes and is effective for eleven (11) months unless a longer period is expressly provided in the appointment form. The proxy's authority may be limited to a particular meeting or may be general and authorize the proxy to represent the shareholder at any meeting of shareholders held within the time provided in the appointment form. Subject to the Indiana Business Corporation Law and to any express limitation on the proxy's authority appearing on the face of the appointment form, the Corporation is entitled to accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the shareholder making the appointment.
Section 1.10
Proxies
 
. . The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of any share or shares of stock of the Corporation, as recorded on the stock record or transfer books of the Corporation, as the holder of record and as the holder and owner in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be required to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share(s) on the part of any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or association, whether or not the Corporation shall have express or other notice thereof, save as is otherwise expressly required by law, and the term "shareholder" as used in these By-Laws means one who is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation.
Section 1.11
Record Ownership
 
. . Any or all of the members of the Board of Directors may be removed only at a meeting of the shareholders or Directors called expressly for that purpose. Removal by the shareholders requires an affirmative vote of the holders of outstanding shares representing at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the votes then entitled to be cast at an election of Directors. Removal by the Board of Directors requires an affirmative vote of both (a) a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, and (b) a majority of the entire number of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation).
Section 1.12
Removal of Directors
 
. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at a shareholders' meeting may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action, and delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records reflecting the action taken. Action taken under this Section 1.12 is effective when the last shareholder signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 1.12 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all shareholders and may be described as such in any document.
Section 1.13
Written Consents
 
. . The Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director or the Board of Directors may permit any or all shareholders to participate in an annual or special meeting of shareholders by, or through the use of, any means of communication, such as conference telephone, by which all shareholders participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A shareholder participating in a meeting by such means shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
Section 1.14
Participation Other Than in Person
 
 
 
. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of at least five (5) Directors, but not more than nineteen (19) Directors, with the actual number of Directors being fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Directors shall be divided into three (3) groups, with each group consisting of one-third (1/3) of the total Directors, as near as may be, with the term of office of the first group to expire at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2002, the term of office of the second group to expire at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2003, and the term of office of the third group to expire at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2004; and at each annual meeting of shareholders, the Directors chosen to succeed those whose terms then expire shall be identified as being of the same group as the Directors they succeed and shall be elected for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of shareholders.
Section 2.1
Number and Terms
 
Despite the expiration of a Director's term, the Director shall continue to serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until the earlier of his or her death, resignation, disqualification or removal, or until there is a decrease in the number of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, from whatever cause arising, shall be filled by selection of a successor by a majority vote of the remaining members (although less than a quorum) of the Board of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation); provided, however, that if such vacancy or vacancies leave the Board of Directors with no members who then qualify as Continuing Directors or if the remaining members of the Board who then qualify as Continuing Directors are unable to agree upon a successor or determine not to select a successor, such vacancy may be filled by a vote of the shareholders at a special meeting called for that purpose or at the next annual meeting of shareholders. The term of a Director elected or selected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the end of the term for which such Director's predecessor was elected, or if the vacancy arises because of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, at the end of the term specified at the time of election or selection.
 
The Directors and each of them shall have no authority to bind the Corporation except when acting as a Board.
 
. . A majority of the whole Board of Directors shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, except the filling of vacancies. If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the act of a greater number is required by the Indiana Business Corporation Law, the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
Section 2.2
Quorum and Vote Required To Take Action
 
. . The Board of Directors shall meet annually, without notice, immediately following the annual meeting of the shareholders, for the purpose of transacting such business as properly may come before the meeting. Other regular meetings of the Board of Directors, in addition to said annual meeting, shall be held on such dates, at such times and at such places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and specified in a notice of each such regular meeting, or otherwise communicated to the Directors. The Board of Directors may at any time alter the date for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.3
Annual and Regular Meetings
 
. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer or by one quarter (1/4) of the whole authorized number of Directors, upon not less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice given to each Director of the date, time, and place of the meeting, which notice need not specify the purpose or purposes of the special meeting. Such notice may be communicated in person (either in writing or orally), by telephone, telegraph, teletype, or other form of wire or wireless communication, or by mail, and shall be effective at the earlier of the time of its receipt or, if mailed, three (3) days after its mailing. Notice of any meeting of the Board may be waived in writing at any time if the waiver is signed by the Director entitled to the notice and is filed with the minutes or corporate records. A Director's attendance at or
Section 2.4
Special Meetings
 
participation in a meeting waives any required notice to the Director of the meeting, unless the Director at the beginning of the meeting (or promptly upon the Director's arrival) objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
 
. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by each Director, and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken. Action taken under this Section 2.5 is effective when the last Director signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 2.5 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all members of the Board and may be described as such in any document.
Section 2.5
Written Consents
 
. . The Board of Directors may permit any or all Directors to participate in a regular or special meeting by, or through the use of, any means of communication, such as conference telephone, by which all Directors participating may simultaneously, hear each other during the meeting. A Director participating in a meeting by such means shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
Section 2.6
Participation Other Than in Person
 
. . The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to an Executive Committee. The duties of the Executive Committee shall, subject to the restrictions of Section 2.13 hereof, be to exercise the authority of the full Board of Directors at any times other than during regular or special meetings of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.7
Executive Committee
 
. . The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Compensation Committee. The duties of the Compensation Committee shall include assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the establishment of the compensation philosophy and the setting of the compensation of the Corporation's officers.
Section 2.8
Compensation Committee
 
. . The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to an Audit Committee. The duties of the Audit Committee shall include assisting the Board in overseeing (a) the integrity of the Corporation's financial statements and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, (b) the appointment, retention and compensation of the independent auditors and (c) the performance of the Corporation's internal audit and compliance function and independent auditors.
Section 2.9
Audit Committee
 
. . The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Planning Committee. The duties of the Planning Committee shall include assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to strategic and operational planning and performance.
Section 2.10
Planning Committee
 
. . The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Governance Committee. The duties of the Governance Committee shall include assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to Board composition, corporate governance and the setting of the compensation of the non-employee members of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.11
Governance Committee
 
. . The Board of Directors may create one (1) or more committees in addition to any Executive Committee, Compensation Committee, Audit Committee, Planning Committee or Governance Committee and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them, by resolution of the Board of Directors adopted by a majority of all the Directors in office when the resolution is adopted. The committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors to the extent specified in the resolution. Each committee may have one (1) or more members, and all the members of such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.12
Other Committees
 
. .
Section 2.13
Limitations on Committees; Notice, Quorum and Voting
 
(a) Neither the Executive Committee, Compensation Committee, Audit Committee, Planning Committee, Governance Committee nor any other committee hereafter established may:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Except to the extent inconsistent with the resolutions creating a committee, Sections 2.1 through 2.6 of these By-Laws, which govern meetings, action without
 
meetings, notice and waiver of notice, quorum and voting requirements and participation in meetings of the Board of Directors other than in person, apply to each committee and its members as well.
 
 
 
. . The officers of the Corporation shall consist of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, and the Secretary. The Board of Directors may also elect Executive Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Controller, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers or assistant officers as it may from time to time determine by resolution creating the office and defining the duties thereof. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, by a certificate of appointment creating the office and defining the duties and term thereof delivered to the Secretary for inclusion with the corporate records, from time to time create and appoint such assistant officers as they deem desirable. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors (or appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President as provided above) and need not be selected from among the members of the Board of Directors, except for the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director and the Chief Executive Officer who shall be members of the Board of Directors. Any two (2) or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with respect to officers appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President, also at the pleasure of such officers. The election or appointment of an officer does not itself create contract rights.
Section 3.1
Designation, Selection and Terms
 
. . The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time with or without cause. An officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President may also be removed at any time, with or without cause, by any of such officers. Vacancies in such offices, however occurring, may be filled by the Board of Directors at any meeting of the Board of Directors (or by appointment by the Chief Executive Officer or the President, to the extent provided in Section 3.1 of these By-Laws).
Section 3.2
Removal
 
. .
Section 3.3
Chairman of the Board and Presiding Director
 
(a) . The Chairman of the Board, if any, shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
 
(b) . The Presiding Director, if any, shall, if present, preside at the meetings of the shareholders and Board of Directors in the absence of the Chairman of the Board.
Presiding Director
 
. . The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive and principal policymaking officer of the Corporation. Subject to the authority
Section 3.4
Chief Executive Officer
 
of the Board of Directors, he or she shall formulate the major policies to be pursued in the administration of the Corporation's affairs. He or she shall study and make reports and recommendations to the Board of Directors with respect to major problems and activities of the Corporation and shall see that the established policies are placed into effect and carried out. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, and the Presiding Director, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors.
 
. . Subject to the provisions of Sections 3.3 and 3.4, the President shall exercise the powers and perform the duties which ordinarily appertain to such office and shall manage and operate the business and affairs of the Corporation in conformity with the policies established by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, or as may be provided for in these By-Laws. In connection with the performance of his or her duties, he or she shall keep the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director and the Chief Executive Officer fully informed as to all phases of the Corporation's activities. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director and the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and, if a Director, at meetings of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.5
President
 
. . The Chief Financial Officer shall be the chief financial officer of the Corporation and shall perform all of the duties customary to that office. He or she shall be responsible for all of the Corporation's financial affairs, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Executive Officer, and shall have and perform such further powers and duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.6
Chief Financial Officer
 
. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.7
Executive Vice President
 
. . The Chief Accounting Officer shall perform all of the duties customary to that office, shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall be responsible for maintaining the Corporation's accounting books and records and preparing its financial statements, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Financial Officer and other superior officers within the Corporation. He or she shall also be responsible for causing the Corporation to furnish financial statements to its shareholders pursuant to Ind. Code 23-1-53-1.
Section 3.8
Chief Accounting Officer
 
. . The Secretary shall be the custodian of the books, papers, and records of the Corporation and of its corporate seal, if any, and shall be responsible for seeing that the Corporation maintains the records required by Ind. Code 23-1-52-1 (other than accounting records) and that the Corporation files with the Indiana Secretary of State the biennial report required by Ind. Code 23-1-53-3. The Secretary shall be responsible for preparing minutes of the meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and for authenticating records of the Corporation, and he or she shall perform all of the other duties usual in the office of Secretary of a corporation.
Section 3.9
Secretary
 
. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.10
Vice Presidents
 
. . The Treasurer, if any, shall be responsible for the treasury functions of the Corporation, subject to the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer.
Section 3.11
Treasurer
 
. . The Board of Directors may, at its discretion, from time to time, fix the salary of any officer by resolution included in the minute book of the Corporation.
Section 3.12
Salary
 
 
 
All checks, drafts, or other orders for payment of money shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by such officers or persons as shall be designated from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and included in the minute book of the Corporation; and in the absence of such designation, such checks, drafts, or other orders for payment shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer.
 
 
 
Such of the officers of the Corporation as shall be designated from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and included in the minute book of the Corporation, and in the absence of such designation and subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors may fix, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and the Chief Financial Officer, shall have the power, with such limitations thereon as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, to borrow money in the Corporation's behalf, to establish credit, to discount bills and papers, to pledge collateral, and to execute such notes, bonds, debentures, or other evidences of indebtedness, and such mortgages, trust indentures, and other instruments in connection therewith, as may be authorized from time to time by such Board of Directors.
 
 
 
The Chief Executive Officer, the President or any other officer authorized by the Board of Directors may, in the Corporation's name, acting singly, sign all deeds, leases, contracts, or similar documents unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors or otherwise provided herein or in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, or as otherwise required by law. Only one signature is required, unless otherwise provided by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
. . The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until each certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Certificates for shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and the seal of the Corporation (or a facsimile thereof), if any, may be thereto affixed. Where any such certificate is also signed by a transfer agent or a registrar, or both, the signatures of the officers of the Corporation may be facsimiles. The Corporation may issue and deliver any such certificate notwithstanding that any such officer who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature shall have been imprinted on, such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer.
Section 7.1
Certificates of Stock; Uncertificated Shares; Execution
 
. . Each certificate issued after the adoption of these By-Laws shall state on its face the name of the Corporation and that it is organized under the laws of the State of Indiana, the name of the person to whom it is issued, and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, the certificate represents, and shall state conspicuously on its front or back that the Corporation will furnish the shareholder, upon his written request and without charge, a summary of the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations applicable to each class and the variations in rights, preferences, and limitations determined for each series (and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series).
Section 7.2
Contents
 
. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by resolution of the Board of Directors, transfers of shares of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof, in person or by duly authorized attorney, on payment of all taxes thereon and surrender for cancellation of the certificate or certificates for such shares (except as hereinafter provided in the case of loss, destruction, or mutilation of certificates) properly endorsed by the holder thereof or accompanied by the proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer, and delivered to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
Section 7.3
Transfers
 
. . There shall be entered upon the stock records of the Corporation the number of each certificate issued, the name and address of the registered holder of such certificate, the number, kind, and class of shares represented by such certificate, the date of issue, whether the shares are originally issued or transferred, the registered holder from whom transferred, and such other information as is commonly required to be shown by such records. The stock records of the Corporation shall be kept at its principal office, unless the Corporation appoints a transfer agent or registrar, in which case the Corporation shall keep at its principal office a complete and accurate shareholders' list giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each, which shall be updated periodically as determined by the Secretary, but not less frequently than quarterly, and which shall be updated as of each record date established with respect to a meeting of shareholders or other shareholder action. If a transfer agent is appointed by the Corporation, shareholders shall give written notice of any changes in their addresses from time to time to the transfer agent.
Section 7.4
Stock Transfer Records
 
. . The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars and may require each stock certificate to bear the signature of either or both.
Section 7.5
Transfer Agents and Registrars
 
. . The holder of any shares of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction, or mutilation of the certificate therefor, and the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, cause to be issued to him a new certificate or certificates, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate, or, in the case of loss or destruction, upon satisfactory proof of such loss or destruction. The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, require the holder of the lost or destroyed certificate or his legal representative to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and in such form, and with such surety or sureties as it may direct, to indemnify the Corporation, its transfer agents, and registrars, if any, against any claim that may be made against them or any of them with respect to the shares represented by the certificate or certificates alleged to have been lost or destroyed, but the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, refuse to issue a new certificate or certificates, save upon the order of a court having jurisdiction in such matters.
Section 7.6
Loss, Destruction, or Mutilation of Certificates
 
. . The form of the certificates for shares of the Corporation shall conform to the requirements of Section 7.2 of these By-Laws and be in such printed form as shall from time to time be approved by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 7.7
Form of Certificates
 
 
 
The corporate seal of the Corporation shall, if the Corporation elects to have one, be in the form of a disc, with the name of the Corporation and "INDIANA" on the periphery thereof and the word "SEAL" in the center.
 
 
 
. . The provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation law, as amended, applicable to all matters relevant to, but not specifically covered by, these By-Laws are hereby, by reference, incorporated in and made a part of these By-Laws.
Section 9.1
Indiana Business Corporation Law
 
. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on December 31 of each year.
Section 9.2
Fiscal Year
 
. . Effective upon the registration of any class of the Corporation's shares under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Corporation shall be governed by the provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-43 regarding business combinations.
Section 9.3
Election to be governed by Indiana Code  23-1-43
 
. . The provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-42 shall apply to the acquisition of shares of the Corporation.
Section 9.4
Control Share Acquisition Statute
 
. . If and whenever the provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-42 apply to the Corporation, any or all control shares acquired in a control share acquisition shall be subject to redemption by the Corporation, if either:
Section 9.5
Redemption of Shares Acquired in Control Share Acquisitions
 
(a) no acquiring person statement has been filed with the Corporation with respect to such control share acquisition in accordance with Ind. Code 23-1-42-6, or
 
(b) the control shares are not accorded full voting rights by the Corporation's shareholders as provided in Ind. Code 23-1-42-9.
 
A redemption pursuant to Section 9.5(a) may be made at any time during the period ending sixty (60) days after the last acquisition of control shares by the acquiring person. A redemption pursuant to Section 9.5(b) may be made at any time during the period ending two (2) years after the shareholder vote with respect to the granting of voting rights to such control shares. Any redemption pursuant to this Section 9.5 shall be made at the fair value of the control shares and pursuant to such procedures for such redemption as may be set forth in these By-Laws or adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
As used in this Section 9.5, the terms "control shares," "control share acquisition," "acquiring person statement," and "acquiring person" shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in Ind. Code 23-1-42.
 
. . These By-Laws may be rescinded, changed, or amended, and provisions hereof may be waived, at any meeting of the Board of Directors by the
Section 9.6
Amendments
 
affirmative vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, except as otherwise required by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or by the Indiana Business Corporation Law.
 
. . The term "Articles of Incorporation" as used in these By-Laws means the articles of incorporation of the Corporation as from time to time are in effect.
Section 9.7
Definition of Articles of Incorporation
 
 
 
. . The provisions of this Article X shall become effective (the "Effective Time") if and when WellPoint Health Networks Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WHN"), merges with and into Anthem Holding Corp., an Indiana corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to an Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, effective as of October 26, 2003 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among the Corporation, Merger Sub and WHN. The provisions of this Article X shall expire and become null and void on the date of the second anniversary of the Effective Time (the "Expiration Date").
Section 10.1
Effective Time; Expiration Date
 
. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of these By-Laws to the contrary, from the Effective Time until the Expiration Date the provisions of this Article X shall be controlling. The provisions of this Article X shall not be rescinded, changed or amended, nor may the provisions of this Article X be waived, except by the affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 10.2
Effect of the Provisions in this Article X
 
. . At the Effective Time, the Corporation's Board of Directors shall be comprised of nineteen (19) Directors, to consist of eleven (11) of the then current members of the Corporation's Board of Directors (including the then current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation), designated by the Corporation before the Effective Time, at least six (6) of whom must be "independent" under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the Corporation (the "Former Corporation Directors"), and eight (8) of the then current members of WHN's Board of Directors (including the then current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of WHN), designated by WHN before the Effective Time, at least five (5) of whom must be "independent" under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the Corporation (the "Former WHN Directors"). If any Former Corporation Director or Former WHN Director designated shall be unable or unwilling to serve as a Director at the Effective Time, the party which designated such individual as indicated above shall designate another individual reasonably acceptable to the Governance Committee to serve in such individual's place. The Former Corporation Directors and Former WHN Directors who are designated shall be split such that one (1) of the three (3) classes of the Corporation's Directors will be comprised of four (4) Former Corporation Directors and three (3) Former WHN Directors, one (1) of the three (3) classes of the Corporation's Directors will be comprised of four (4) Former Corporation Directors and two (2)
Section 10.3
Composition of Board of Directors
 
Former WHN Directors and one (1) of the three (3) classes of the Corporation's Directors will be comprised of three (3) Former Corporation Directors and three (3) Former WHN Directors. Prior to the Effective Time, each of the Corporation and WHN will designate in writing the class to which each individual Director designated by such party is to be assigned. The members of the Corporation's Board of Directors as of the Effective Time will serve as Directors until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified in accordance with the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and applicable law unless he or she earlier resigns, retires, is removed or is unable to serve.
 
. . As of the Effective Time and until the Expiration Date, unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise by an affirmative vote of not less then eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, in the event that a Former Corporation Director or a Director otherwise elected or nominated to the Board of Directors by the Former Corporation Directors as set forth herein (such Directors together with the Former Corporation Directors, the "Corporation Aligned Directors") or a Former WHN Director or a Director otherwise elected or nominated to the Board of Directors by the Former WHN Directors as set forth herein (such Directors together with the Former WHN Directors, the "WHN Aligned Directors"), shall resign, retire, be removed, no longer be able to serve or not stand or be standing for reelection (for whatever reason, including the failure of the Board of Directors to nominate such person), then (a) if such Director shall be a Corporation Aligned Director, then the Corporation Aligned Directors shall have the exclusive right to nominate an individual reasonably acceptable to the Governance Committee to fill such vacancy and the entire Board of Directors shall either elect such person a Director to fill such vacancy or, if applicable, nominate such person for election as a Director by the shareholders of the Corporation, and (b) if such Director shall be a WHN Aligned Director, then the WHN Aligned Directors shall have the exclusive right to nominate an individual reasonably acceptable to the Governance Committee to fill such vacancy and the entire Board of Directors shall either elect such person a Director to fill such vacancy or, if applicable, nominate such person for election as a Director by the shareholders of the Corporation. The term of any Director elected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the end of the term for which such Director's predecessor was elected.
Section 10.4
Nomination of Directors
 
. . Leonard D. Schaeffer shall be elected by the Board of Directors as the non-executive Chairman of the Board and the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors as of the Effective Time and, unless he earlier resigns, retires or is unable to serve, or unless the Board of Directors removes him by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, shall occupy such position until the Expiration Date and shall retire from such position and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, of any other committees of the Board of Directors and as a director of the Foundation (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and any other foundations controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation as of the Expiration Date. Upon the earlier of (a) Mr. Schaeffer's resignation, retirement, removal or inability to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board or as a Director, and (b) the Expiration Date, unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Board of Directors as Chairman of the Board.
Section 10.5
Chairmanship
 
. . Larry C. Glasscock shall be President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation as of the Effective Time, and unless he earlier resigns, retires or is unable to serve, or unless the Board of Directors removes him by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time, shall occupy such position until at least the Expiration Date.
Section 10.6
Officers
 
 
 
. . From the Effective Time (as defined in Section 10.1 hereof) and at least until the date that is five years following the Effective Time, the headquarters and principal executive offices of the Corporation shall be located in Indianapolis, Indiana, unless the Corporation's Board of Directors decides otherwise by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 11.1
Location of Headquarters
 
. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of these By-Laws to the contrary, from the Effective Time until the date that is five years following the Effective Time, the provisions of this Article XI shall be controlling. The provisions of this Article XI shall not be rescinded, changed or amended, nor may the provisions of this Article XI be waived, except by the affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 11.2
Effect of the Provisions in this Article XI
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
November 30, 2005 WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) announced today that its Board of Directors has elected Larry C. Glasscock as chairman of the board. Glasscock will now serve as chairman, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint.
Indianapolis, IN 
 
Glasscock succeeds Leonard D. Schaeffer who resigned as chairman of the WellPoint board and as a board member a year after the merger of Anthem, Inc. and WellPoint Health Networks Inc.
 
"As our board chairman, Leonard Schaeffer helped guide the new WellPoint through its first year and I am grateful for his vision and leadership. The integration of our two companies has gone very smoothly," said Glasscock. "We are squarely focused upon our future and are well positioned to deliver products that meet our customer's health care needs and service levels that exceed their expectations. By providing individuals and families with the tools and information they need to make informed decisions, we can help improve lives and make quality health care more affordable. Leonard has been a visionary in helping prepare for that future."
 
"When we merged our two companies in November of 2004, both Larry and I envisioned a new WellPoint that would be the nation's leading health benefits company. I believe we accomplished what we set out to do. The fact that we were able to undertake a significant transaction such as the pending acquisition of WellChoice at this time is a clear indication of how well things have gone," said Schaeffer. "The management team that Larry put in place represents the best talent from each of the two former companies and the strategic plan recently approved by the board will serve as the company's roadmap to future success. I firmly believe the company is on the right course, with the right leadership and is very well prepared for achieving future success."
 
"Therefore, I have decided that the time is right for me to focus on contributing to the development of sustainable public policy solutions for our nation's most pressing health care issues. In addition, my departure from the board at this time makes it possible to add a new member without increasing the overall size of the board and that is an important consideration when adhering to good corporate governance practices. The timing is important now as the terms of the pending merger with WellChoice call for a member of their board to join the WellPoint board when that transaction closes."
 
Contacts:
 
Investor Relations
Tami Durle, (317) 488-6390
 
Media
James Kappel, (317) 488-6400
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
 
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest publicly traded commercial health benefits company in terms of membership in the United States. WellPoint, Inc. is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through HealthLink and UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 


