FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20050208171557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations.
 
Item 1.01Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
(a) On February 2, 2005 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc. authorized the payment of the annual incentive award to each of the named executive officers of WellPoint, Inc. The annual incentive awards were made pursuant to the Anthem Annual Incentive Plan which was approved by the shareholders in May 2003. The annual incentive awards were determined by the Compensation Committee based on the performance of WellPoint, Inc. and its subsidiaries and the executive officers during 2004 as measured against performance measures approved by the Compensation Committee in the first quarter of that year.
 
The following table sets forth cash payments to be made to the named executive officers in respect of their annual incentive awards for 2004:
 
 
(b) On February 2, 2005 the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc. adopted a new program for compensating directors who are not employees of WellPoint, Inc. A copy of the new Board of Directors Compensation Program is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 8, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CASH COMPENSATIONRetainers
 
Annual Board Retainer:
 
 
Additional Annual Retainer for Committee Chairs:
 
 
 
Additional Annual Retainer for the Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
 
CASH COMPENSATIONMeeting Fees
 
Board of Directors Meetings:
 
 
 
Committee Meetings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
STOCK COMPENSATION
 
Initial Full Value Share Grant
(1)
:
 
Each new Director upon becoming a member of the Board of Directors will receive, subject to the deferral described below, an initial grant of the number of shares equal to 2.5 times the Annual Board Retainer on the date such Director joins the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc.
 
The number of shares of the Initial Full Value Share Grant will be calculated using the following formula:
 
[Annual Board Retainer X 2.5] divided by [the closing price of the WellPoint, Inc. common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date the Director joins the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc.] = Number of shares of the Initial Full Value Share Grant.
 
Annual Full Value Share Grant:
 
Each Director will receive, subject to the deferral described below, an annual grant of the number of shares equal to five times the Annual Board Retainer on the date of the WellPoint, Inc. annual meeting of shareholders. The number of shares of the Annual Full Value Share Grant will be calculated using the following formula:
 
[Annual Board Retainer X 5] divided by [the closing price of the WellPoint, Inc. common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of the annual meeting of shareholders] = Number of shares of the Annual Full Value Share Grant.
 
Deferral of Full Value Share Grants:
 
The Initial Full Value Share Grant and each Annual Full Value Share Grant will be deferred for a minimum period of 3 years from the date of the Grant ("Deferral Period") in accordance with the terms of the Director Deferred Compensation Plan. Such Grants shall not be distributed to the Directors until the earlier of the expiration of the Deferral Period or the date on which a Director ceases to be a member of the Board of Directors.
 
Director Ownership Guidelines:
 
Each Director shall have the obligation to own five times the Annual Board Retainer in WellPoint, Inc. common stock at the end of a five-year period commencing on the later of the date such Director became a member of the Board of Directors or May 3, 2002.
MISCELLANEOUS
 
Annual Physical Exam:
 
WellPoint, Inc. will pay the cost of an annual physical examination for each Director.
 
Expenses:
 
WellPoint, Inc. will reimburse each Director (other than the Chairman of the Board) for all travel, lodging and other expenses incurred in connection with the attendance at and/or participation in any and all Board of Directors Meetings and Committee Meetings in accordance with the WellPoint, Inc. Travel and Entertainment Policy.
 
WellPoint, Inc. will reimburse the Chairman of the Board for all travel, lodging and other expenses incurred in connection with his performance of responsibilities as Chairman of the Board of Directors including but not limited to the attendance at and/or participation in any and all Board of Directors Meetings and Committee Meetings in accordance with the terms WellPoint Health Networks Inc. Travel and Entertainment Policy.
 
In addition, as previously described in more detail in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 21, 2005, WellPoint, Inc. has ongoing obligations to the Chairman of the Board including but not limited to providing an office, clerical support and supplies during his term as Chairman of the Board of Directors and for a period of five years thereafter pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between WellPoint Health Networks Inc. and Mr. Schaeffer dated to be effective December 31, 2002.


