FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20051026063110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2Financial Information.
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 26, 2005, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 26, 2005
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 October 26, 2005  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that third quarter 2005 net income reached $640.7 million, or $1.02 per share. Net income for the third quarter of 2004 was $242.1 million, or $0.85 per share.
Indianapolis, IN
 
"Our third quarter results further build upon a very successful year in which we have delivered more products and services to our members than ever before," said Larry C. Glasscock, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We expect that our new Medicare products will be well received in the marketplace as they will offer access to more affordable health and prescription drug plan options than previously available. We are also anticipating good National Accounts growth, having already secured a number of new accounts for the first of the year."
 
"Also as we look forward, we are very excited about our pending merger with WellChoice. The combined company should be ideally positioned to offer our respective customers more innovative and cost effective solutions to help meet their health care needs than either company could accomplish alone," added Glasscock.
 
 
On November 30, 2004, Anthem, Inc. acquired WellPoint Health Networks Inc. and Anthem, Inc. changed its name to WellPoint, Inc. Accordingly, third quarter and year-to-date 2005 financial results include operations of both legacy companies for the entire periods. Third quarter and year-to-date 2004 financial results, however, only include operations of the former Anthem, Inc. Unless otherwise indicated, the analysis in this press release compares reported financial results to historical financial results, as reclassified to conform to current presentation, and does not adjust results for the effects of the acquisition.
 
In certain areas, we have included "comparable basis" analyses that we believe provide more meaningful comparisons between periods, due to the inclusion of operations for the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. in the comparable historical results. The comparable, historical information is not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported had the acquisition been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative or indicative of our future results. The methodologies for calculating the comparable, historical information are either described within the text of the press release, or in the tables at the end of the press release where such comparable historical information is reconciled to the historical GAAP information of the former Anthem, Inc. and the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. Comparable, historical information and reconciliations for the quarterly and year-to-date periods ended March 31, 2004, and June 30, 2004, are available at under "Investor Info."
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
Medical enrollment reached approximately 29 million members at September 30, 2005, an increase of 16.3 million members since September 30, 2004.
Membership:
 
On a comparable basis, medical enrollment increased by more than 1.5 million members, or 5.6 percent, compared with 27.4 million members at September 30, 2004. Enrollment growth was realized in every region and across all lines of business, led by the National Accounts and Large Group operations. The Company added 145,000 new members during the third quarter of 2005.
 
Self-funded membership represented approximately 50 percent of enrollment at September 30, 2005, versus 47 percent of comparable enrollment at September 30, 2004. On July 1, 2005, approximately 140,000 members in the Georgia state HMO account converted from fully-insured to self-funded status.
 
Operating revenue approached $11.2 billion, an increase of 135.6 percent from $4.7 billion in the third quarter of 2004.
Operating Revenue:
 
Operating revenue increased by $592.6 million on a comparable basis, representing growth of 5.6 percent, compared with $10.6 billion in the third quarter of 2004. The increase was driven primarily by strong membership gains and disciplined pricing in the Individual and Small Group ("ISG") and National Accounts businesses.
 
The benefit expense ratio was 79.9 percent, a decrease of 280 basis points, compared with 82.7 percent in the third quarter of 2004.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
 
On a comparable basis, the benefit expense ratio declined by 170 basis points, compared with 81.6 percent in the third quarter 2004, reflecting lower than anticipated medical costs in the current year.
 
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Large Group and ISG fully-insured businesses and are calculated on a comparable basis, including the former Anthem, Inc. and the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. for all applicable periods.
 
Medical trend for full year 2005 is now expected to be less than 8.5 percent. For the rolling 12 month period ended September 30, 2005, the highest rate of increase in medical trend was in outpatient services and costs. Commercial premium yield for full year 2005 is expected to be approximately equal to total cost trend, where total cost trend includes medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense.
 
The SG&A expense ratio increased by 10 basis points, to 16.6 percent, compared with 16.5 percent in the third quarter of 2004.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
 
On a comparable basis, the SG&A expense ratio increased by 70 basis points, compared with 15.9 percent in the prior year period. The increase reflected higher incentive compensation, including merger-related stay bonuses. Also impacting results were costs associated with the transition of information technology infrastructure services to an external vendor, which is expected to reduce future operating costs. During the third quarter, the Company achieved its targeted merger synergies of at least $40.0 million, net of the costs incurred to achieve those synergies.
 
Operating cash flow reached $928.3 million, or 1.4 times net income.
Operating Cash Flow:
 
Days in claims payable as of September 30, 2005, was 46.7 days, unchanged from June 30, 2005.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the third quarter, due to trading restrictions placed on the Company during its merger negotiations with WellChoice, Inc. During the first six months of 2005, the Company repurchased a total of 5.1 million shares.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
During the third quarter, the Board of Directors increased the remaining authorization under the share repurchase program from approximately $367.1 million to $1.0 billion and eliminated the expiration date on the program. On October 24, 2005, the Board increased the share repurchase authorization by an additional $1.0 billion, upon closing of the pending merger with WellChoice, Inc. The Company expects to repurchase shares following the close of the transaction.
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has three reportable segments: Health Care, Specialty and Other. Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
 
 
Operating gain for the Health Care segment was $916.6 million, an increase of 166.0 percent, compared with $344.6 million in the prior year period.
Health Care:
 
On a comparable basis, operating gain increased by $157.2 million, or 20.7 percent, compared with $759.4 million in the prior year period. The improvement resulted from strong membership growth, moderating medical costs in the current year, and merger synergies realized throughout the organization. The Large Group and ISG businesses contributed most significantly to the overall increase in operating gain.
 
Operating gain totaled $89.2 million, an increase of 357.4 percent, compared with $19.5 million in the third quarter of 2004.
Specialty:
 
Operating gain increased by $3.6 million, or 4.2 percent, on a comparable basis, from $85.6 million in the third quarter of 2004. The increase reflected strong performance in the pharmacy benefit management operation, including continued growth in mail-order prescription volume, which was partially offset by unfavorable mortality experience on certain life insurance contracts.
 
 
Full Year 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Year 2006:
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its third quarter earnings results and outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 779659. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on November 9, 2005. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
 
Contacts:
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
 
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest publicly traded commercial health benefits company in terms of membership in the United States. WellPoint, Inc. is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through HealthLink and UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
Medical Membership
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medical Membership
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the supplemental statistics listed in footnotes 3, 4 and 5 to the table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable." These supplemental statistics are not calculated in accordance with GAAP and are not intended to be alternatives to any measure or statistic calculated in accordance with GAAP. Rather, these supplemental statistics are intended to facilitate understanding of the effects that recent acquisitions have had on the reconciliation of medical claims payable.
 
Footnote 3:
 
Current year medical claims paid as a percent of current year net incurred medical claims - year ended December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
Footnote 4:
 
Prior year redundancies in the current period as a percent of prior year net incurred medical claims - nine months ended September 30, 2005.
 
 
 
Footnote 5:
 
Prior year redundancies in the current period as a percent of prior year net incurred medical claims - year ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint"), WellChoice, Inc. ("WellChoice") and the combined company after completion of the transactions that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint and WellChoice, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint (formerly Anthem, Inc.), WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WellPoint Health") and WellChoice; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation targeted at health benefits companies; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; other potential uses of cash in the future that present attractive alternatives to share repurchases; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellPoint Health merger within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; our ability to consummate WellPoint's merger with WellChoice, to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time-frames or at all; to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transaction; the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; our ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction and the value of the transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers
 
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Neither WellPoint nor WellChoice undertakes any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's and WellChoice's various SEC reports, including but not limited to Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2005.
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
 
This communication is being made in respect of the proposed merger transaction involving WellPoint and WellChoice. In connection with the proposed transaction, WellPoint and WellChoice will prepare a registration statement on Form S-4, containing a proxy statement/prospectus for the stockholders of WellChoice to be filed with the SEC and each will be filing other documents regarding the proposed transaction with the SEC as well. The final proxy statement/prospectus will be mailed to WellChoice's stockholders. Investors and security holders will be able to receive the registration statement containing the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents free of charge at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov, from WellPoint Investor Relations at 120 Monument Circle, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, or from WellChoice Investor Relations at 11 West 42
BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING OR INVESTMENT DECISION, INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.
nd
Street, New York, New York 10036.
 
PARTICIPANTS IN SOLICITATION
 
WellPoint, WellChoice and their directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding WellPoint's directors and executive officers is available in WellPoint's proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 8, 2005, and information regarding WellChoice's directors and executive officers is available in WellChoice's proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with SEC on March 28, 2005. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of WellChoice stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction will be set forth in the proxy statement/prospectus when it is filed with the SEC.
 
 


