FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20061025062716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 25, 2006, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 25, 2006
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 October 25, 2006  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that third quarter 2006 net income was $810.8 million, or $1.29 per share, an increase of 26.5 percent from $1.02 per share in the third quarter of 2005. Current quarter results included $0.04 per share in tax benefits, resulting from a lower effective tax rate due to changes in the Company's state tax apportionment factors following the WellChoice acquisition, net realized investment gains of $0.01 per share and, as expected, costs of $0.05 per share for expensing stock options in accordance with FAS 123R.
Indianapolis, IN
"We are very pleased with our continued strong performance in 2006, and our third quarter results reinforce our earnings growth expectations for the remainder of the year," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "Looking ahead to 2007, we anticipate another year of robust growth in our National Accounts business, along with further expansion of our Medicaid membership base following our recent contract awards. As we enter the open enrollment season, we are seeing significant interest and early activity for our Lumenos consumer-driven health plans. These innovative and affordable CDHP products will be available beginning January 1
st
for individuals, local group business and national accounts. While we will release our specific 2007 outlook in December, we expect continued earnings per share growth and further improvement in operating margins through more efficient operations."
"We continue to focus on improving returns for our shareholders through our share repurchase program," said David C. Colby, executive vice president and chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "During the third quarter, we used $399.6 million to repurchase 5.4 million shares of our common stock and the Board approved an additional $500 million in share repurchase authorization, bringing our 2006 total authorization to $4.5 billion, which we plan to utilize in the fourth quarter. Cash flow from operations was strong for the quarter. While reported operating cash flow for the quarter was $614.7 million, this amount included only two months of Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
 
("CMS") payments which average $448.4 million per month. If we had received three CMS payments during the quarter, operating cash flow would have been 1.3 times net income for the third quarter. We continue to expect strong cash flow during the next year and will continue to use our cash to grow our business and maximize shareholder value."
On December 28, 2005, WellPoint, Inc. acquired WellChoice, Inc. For accounting purposes, the transaction was assumed to have closed on December 31, 2005. Accordingly, operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. are included in reported financial results for 2006. However, operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. are not included in reported financial results for 2005.
Unless otherwise indicated, the analysis in this press release compares reported financial results and does not adjust results for the effects of this acquisition. In certain areas, we have included "comparable basis" analyses that we believe provide more meaningful comparisons between periods, due to the inclusion of operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. in the comparable historical results. The "comparable basis" information is not calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported had the acquisition been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative or indicative of our future results. The methodologies for calculating the comparable basis information are either described within the text of the press release, or in the tables at the end of the press release where such comparable basis information is reconciled to WellPoint, Inc.'s reported GAAP financial results.
Medical enrollment totaled 34.2 million members at September 30, 2006, an increase of 5.2 million members from 29.0 million at September 30, 2005, including approximately 4.8 million members acquired through the WellChoice transaction.
Membership:
On a comparable basis, enrollment increased by 558,000 members since September 30, 2005. Each of the Company's geographic regions experienced growth, reflecting the strong diversity in the Company's medical membership base.
From a customer segment perspective, the increase in membership was driven by the National Accounts business, which grew by 765,000 members on a comparable basis. Large, multi-state employers continue to be attracted to WellPoint's superior value proposition, which includes broad, cost-effective networks available through the BlueCard program, as well as cutting-edge Lumenos consumer-driven capabilities and leading wellness and care management programs. The Company also experienced growth of 134,000 members in its State Sponsored operations during the past 12 months. With the ability to offer a comprehensive array of health management services to the nation's Medicaid recipients, the Company has been successful with several recent contract awards in Indiana, Kansas, Ohio and Nevada.
Individual and Small Group ("ISG") and Senior businesses also experienced growth over the past 12 months. Large Group enrollment declined from the prior year, primarily due to the previously-announced losses of two large groups totaling approximately 410,000 members.
 
Medicare Part D enrollment grew by 42,000 members during the quarter, totaling 1.6 million members as of September 30, 2006. The Company is well-positioned for continued success in this program based on the 2007 bid information recently released by CMS.
Operating revenue was $14.2 billion in the third quarter of 2006, an increase of 29.0 percent from $11.0 billion in the prior year quarter.
Operating Revenue:
On a comparable basis, third quarter 2006 operating revenue increased by $1.6 billion, or 12.3 percent, versus $12.6 billion in the prior year period. The increase resulted primarily from disciplined pricing, the addition of the New York state prescription drug contract in 2006, enrollment in the Company's Medicare Part D products and increased reimbursement in the Federal Employee Program ("FEP").
The benefit expense ratio was 81.3 percent in the third quarter of 2006, a 180 basis point increase compared with 79.5 percent in the third quarter of 2005.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
On a comparable basis, the benefit expense ratio increased by 80 basis points, from 80.5 percent in the third quarter of 2005. The 80 basis point increase primarily resulted from the addition of the New York state prescription drug contract, which has a higher-than-average benefit expense ratio, and increased medical expenses in the FEP, for which the Company is reimbursed for its costs plus a fee.
The benefit expense ratio increased by 10 basis points sequentially, from 81.2 percent in the second quarter of 2006. Increased medical expenses in the FEP resulted in a 20 basis point increase in the benefit expense ratio in the third quarter, which was partially offset by other items including Medicare Part D experience.
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Large Group and ISG fully-insured businesses.
For the rolling 12-month period ended September 30, 2006, the primary drivers of medical trend were inpatient and outpatient costs. Commercial premium yield for the same period exceeded total cost trend, where total cost trend included medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense, resulting in an increase in underwriting margin. The Company continues to expect that full year 2006 medical cost trend will be less than 8.0 percent.
The SG&A expense ratio was 15.5 percent in the third quarter of 2006, a decrease of 130 basis points from 16.8 percent in the third quarter of 2005. The current quarter included costs for expensing stock options in accordance with FAS 123R, which added 30 basis points to the SG&A ratio.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
On a comparable basis, the SG&A expense ratio declined by 110 basis points, compared with 16.6 percent in the third quarter of 2005. The ratio improved significantly year-over-year as the Company continued to control spending, spread administrative expenses across a growing revenue base and realize integration synergies and efficiencies.
The SG&A expense ratio declined by 20 basis points compared to 15.7 percent in the second quarter of 2006, reflecting continued leveraging of SG&A costs across a growing revenue base. The Company remains confident in its ability to further reduce the SG&A ratio, as even greater efficiencies are achieved through the Company's new organizational structure.
 
For the first nine months of 2006, operating cash flow totaled $2.6 billion, or 1.1 times net income. Operating cash flow totaled $614.7 million in the third quarter, as the Company received only two CMS monthly payments of approximately $448.4 million each. For the quarter, operating cash flow was 0.8 times net income. If three monthly CMS payments had been received during the quarter, operating cash flow would have been 1.3 times net income.
Operating Cash Flow:
Days in claims payable as of September 30, 2006, was 45.6 days, an increase of 0.8 days from 44.8 days as of June 30, 2006. This increase was primarily due to an increase in claims payment cycle times due to the migration away from certain legacy claims systems and the timing of PBM pharmacy claim payments.
Days in Claims Payable:
During the third quarter 2006, the Company repurchased 5.4 million shares of its common stock for $399.6 million. The Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by $500 million on August 17, 2006, to $4.5 billion. As of September 30, 2006, there was $500 million available under the Board's current repurchase authorization. Based on the current stock price and strong year-to-date financial results, the Company intends to utilize this remaining authorization during the fourth quarter of 2006, subject to market conditions. At September 30, 2006, cash and investments held at the parent company totaled approximately $1.5 billion.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
WellPoint, Inc. has three reportable segments: Health Care, Specialty and Other. Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
Operating gain for the Health Care segment was approximately $1.1 billion in the third quarter of 2006, an increase of 20.8 percent, compared with $905.6 million in the third quarter of 2005.
Health Care:
On a comparable basis, third quarter 2006 operating gain increased by $87.8 million, or 8.7 percent, compared with $1.0 billion in the prior year quarter. Performance in the Health Care segment improved year-over-year due to disciplined underwriting, enrollment in the Company's Medicare Part D products and continued SG&A expense control. Operating gain in the third quarter of 2006 included costs of $43.5 million for expensing stock options in accordance with FAS 123R.
 
Operating gain totaled $128.7 million in the third quarter of 2006, an increase of 28.4 percent compared with $100.2 million in the third quarter of 2005 on both a reported and comparable basis. The increase resulted primarily from higher PBM prescription volume with the addition of Medicare Part D. The Company continues to see growth in its other ongoing specialty operations.
Specialty:
Full Year 2006:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Year 2007:
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its third quarter earnings results and updated outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 842195. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on November 8, 2006. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
Contacts:
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint's mission is to improve the lives of the people it serves and the health of its communities. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of commercial membership in the United States. Through its nationwide networks, the company delivers a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, pharmacy benefit management, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the adjusted ratios of prior year redundancies in the current period to prior year net incurred medical claims that are included in table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable."
Ratio for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2006
This ratio is impacted by having no net incurred medical claims for the former WellChoice, Inc. ("WC") in 2005.
 
Ratio for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005
This ratio is impacted by having only one month of net incurred medical claims for the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WHN") in 2004.
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2005
This ratio is impacted by having only one month of net incurred medical claims for WHN in 2004.
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2003
This ratio is impacted by having only five months of net incurred medical claims for the former Trigon Healthcare, Inc. ("TGH") in 2002.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint and WellChoice, Inc. ("WellChoice"); trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; other potential uses of cash in the future that present attractive alternatives to share repurchases; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellPoint Health Networks Inc. merger and WellChoice acquisition within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transactions may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transactions; our ability to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock; our ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of the transactions and the value of transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's and WellChoice's various SEC reports, including but not limited to WellPoint's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2006.
 


