FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20060726062033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 26, 2006, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 26, 2006
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 July 26, 2006  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that second quarter 2006 net income was $751.2 million, or $1.17 per share, including costs of $0.05 per share for the impact of expensing stock options in accordance with FAS 123R and net realized investment losses of $0.01 per share. Net income for the second quarter of 2005 was $559.4 million, or $0.90 per share, which included expenses of $0.10 per share related to an agreement resolving two national multi-district lawsuits with physicians.
Indianapolis, IN
"We are very pleased with our strong second quarter results that reinforce the very high expectations we set for ourselves at the beginning of the year," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "From a financial perspective, earnings per share growth was very strong, administrative costs as a percentage of revenue continued to improve and our medical expense ratio declined compared to the first quarter. We also introduced several new products and services that will further engage consumers in managing their health care, and offer more benefit options to our diverse customer base. During the second half of 2006, we expect continued membership growth, but not at the expense of profitability."
"We have used the excellent cash flow in the first six months of 2006 to improve equity returns," said David C. Colby, executive vice president and chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "During the second quarter, we repurchased 23.3 million shares of our common stock for $1.7 billion. With Board approval of an additional $1.0 billion in share repurchase authorization during the quarter, we repurchased a total of 48.0 million shares for $3.6 billion through the first half of 2006. As expected, our year-to-date operating cash flow reached $2.0 billion and we continue to expect that full year 2006 operating cash flow will exceed $4.0 billion."
 
"With this second quarter earnings release, we are providing a Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable," added Colby. "The magnitude of positive prior period development continues to reflect the conservative and consistent nature of our reserving processes."
On December 28, 2005, WellPoint, Inc. acquired WellChoice, Inc. For accounting purposes, the transaction was assumed to have closed on December 31, 2005. Accordingly, operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. are included in reported financial results for 2006. However, operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. are not included in reported financial results for 2005.
Unless otherwise indicated, the analysis in this press release compares reported financial results and does not adjust results for the effects of this acquisition. In certain areas, we have included "comparable basis" analyses that we believe provide more meaningful comparisons between periods, due to the inclusion of operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. in the comparable historical results. The "comparable basis" information is not calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported had the acquisition been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative or indicative of our future results. The methodologies for calculating the comparable basis information are either described within the text of the press release, or in the tables at the end of the press release where such comparable basis information is reconciled to WellPoint, Inc.'s reported GAAP financial results.
Medical enrollment totaled 34.2 million members at June 30, 2006, an increase of more than 5.3 million members from 28.8 million at June 30, 2005, including approximately 4.8 million members acquired through the WellChoice transaction.
Membership:
On a comparable basis, enrollment increased by 616,000 members since June 30, 2005. Each of the Company's geographic regions increased by more than 100,000 members, as consumers continue to be attracted to WellPoint's expansive, cost-effective provider networks, superior customer service and leading health improvement and wellness programs. From a customer segment perspective, the increase in membership was driven by growth of 726,000 members in the National business and 102,000 members in State Sponsored operations. Growth was also realized in the Individual and Small Group ("ISG") and Senior businesses, while Large Group enrollment declined primarily due to the previously-announced losses of 377,000 members in the states of Georgia and Kentucky accounts.
Medical enrollment remained relatively flat during the second quarter of 2006. Fully-insured enrollment increased by 22,000 members despite in-group enrollment declines in the automotive industry. Self-funded enrollment declined sequentially due to the discontinuation of a rental network in Texas, resulting in the loss of 67,000 members.
Medicare Part D enrollment exceeded 1.5 million members as of June 30, 2006, as the Company added approximately 230,000 members during the second quarter.
 
Operating revenue exceeded $13.9 billion in the second quarter of 2006, an increase of 26.9 percent from approximately $11.0 billion in the prior year quarter.
Operating Revenue:
On a comparable basis, second quarter 2006 operating revenue increased by $1.3 billion, or 10.5 percent, versus $12.6 billion in the prior year period. The increase resulted primarily from disciplined pricing, the addition of the New York state prescription drug contract and enrollment in the Company's Medicare Part D products.
The benefit expense ratio was 81.2 percent in the second quarter of 2006, a 50 basis point increase compared with 80.7 percent in the second quarter of 2005.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
On a comparable basis, the benefit expense ratio declined by 10 basis points, from 81.3 percent in the second quarter of 2005. The overall 10 basis point decline resulted from a 30 basis point decline due to the non-recurrence of expenses related to the multi-district settlement agreement and a 20 basis point increase due primarily to year-over-year mix of business changes, including Medicare Part D and the New York state prescription drug contract.
The benefit expense ratio declined by 10 basis points sequentially, from 81.3 percent in the first quarter of 2006. Second quarter results included an improved benefit expense ratio for the Company's Medicare Part D products.
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Large Group and ISG fully-insured businesses.
For the rolling 12-month period ended June 30, 2006, the primary drivers of medical trend were outpatient and inpatient costs. Commercial premium yield for the same period exceeded total cost trend, where total cost trend included medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense, resulting in an increase in underwriting margin. The Company continues to expect that full year 2006 medical cost trend will be less than 8.0 percent.
The SG&A expense ratio was 15.7 percent in the second quarter of 2006, a decrease of 100 basis points from 16.7 percent in the second quarter of 2005.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
On a comparable basis, the SG&A expense ratio declined by 90 basis points, compared with 16.6 percent in the second quarter of 2005. The ratio improved year-over-year as the Company continued to control spending, spread administrative expenses across a growing revenue base and realize integration synergies and efficiencies.
The current quarter included costs for stock option expensing, which added approximately 40 basis points to the SG&A expense ratio. The second quarter 2005 ratio was unfavorably impacted by approximately 50 basis points as a result of the multi-district settlement agreement.
The SG&A expense ratio declined by 30 basis points compared with 16.0 percent in the first quarter of 2006, reflecting continued leveraging of overhead costs across a growing revenue base.
 
For the first six months of 2006, operating cash flow totaled $2.0 billion, or 1.3 times net income. Operating cash flow totaled $201.0 million in the second quarter, which was lower than the first quarter level due to two estimated income tax payments totaling $756.0 million that were made during the second quarter and the timing of CMS payments received during the first quarter.
Operating Cash Flow:
Days in claims payable as of June 30, 2006, was 44.8 days, a decrease of 0.6 days from 45.4 days as of March 31, 2006. This decrease was primarily due to a further reduction in the length of time between the date of service and claim payment, and the timing of payments in the PBM operation.
Days in Claims Payable:
During the second quarter 2006, the Company repurchased 23.3 million shares of its common stock for $1.7 billion. The Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by $1.0 billion on May 16, 2006, to $4.0 billion in 2006. As of June 30, 2006, there was $399.6 million available under the Board's current repurchase authorization. Based on the current stock price and strong year-to-date financial results, the Company intends to utilize this remaining authorization during the third quarter of 2006, subject to market conditions. At June 30, 2006, cash and investments held at the parent company totaled $884.1 million.
Share Repurchase Program:
WellPoint, Inc. has three reportable segments: Health Care, Specialty and Other. Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
 
Operating gain for the Health Care segment was approximately $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2006, an increase of 36.5 percent, compared with $777.2 million in the second quarter of 2005.
Health Care:
On a comparable basis, second quarter 2006 operating gain increased by $185.7 million, or 21.2 percent, versus $874.9 million in the prior year quarter. Performance in the Health Care segment improved year-over-year due to enrollment growth, disciplined underwriting and a focus on expense control, including benefits realized through integration initiatives. Operating gain in the second quarter 2006 included costs of $51.3 million for expensing stock options in accordance with FAS 123R, while the prior year quarter included expenses of $103.0 million related to the multi-district settlement agreement.
Operating gain totaled $138.1 million in the second quarter of 2006, an increase of 39.5 percent compared with $99.0 million in the second quarter of 2005.
Specialty:
Second quarter 2006 operating gain increased by $39.2 million, or 39.6 percent, on a comparable basis, from $98.9 million in the prior year quarter. The increase resulted primarily from favorable experience in the life and disability lines of business. In addition, the Company continues to see growth in its on-going specialty operations.
Full Year 2006:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter 2006:
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its second quarter earnings results and updated outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 831808. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on August 9, 2006. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
Contacts:
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint's mission is to improve the lives of the people it serves and the health of its communities. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of commercial membership in the United States. Through its nationwide networks, the company delivers a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, pharmacy benefit management, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
Medical Membership
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the adjusted ratios of prior year redundancies in the current period to prior year net incurred medical claims that are included in table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable."
Ratio for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2006
This ratio is impacted by having no net incurred medical claims for the former WellChoice, Inc. ("WC") in 2005.
 
Ratio for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2005
This ratio is impacted by having only one month of net incurred medical claims for the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WHN") in 2004.
 
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2005
 
 
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2003
This ratio is impacted by having only five months of net incurred medical claims for the former Trigon Healthcare, Inc. ("TGH") in 2002.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint and WellChoice, Inc. ("WellChoice"); trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits and managed care; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; other potential uses of cash in the future that present attractive alternatives to share repurchases; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellPoint Health Networks Inc. merger and WellChoice acquisition within the expected time-frames or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transactions may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transactions; our ability to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock; our ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of the transactions and the value of transaction consideration; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's and WellChoice's various SEC reports, including but not limited to WellPoint's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2006.
 


