FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20070425061542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2Financial Information.
 
On April 25, 2007, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 25, 2007
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 
 
 
 April 25, 2007  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that first quarter 2007 net income was $783.1 million, or $1.26 per share, representing 16 percent growth over the first quarter of 2006. Net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $731.8 million, or $1.09 per share, including $0.01 per share in net realized investment losses.
Indianapolis, IN
"We are pleased to report a solid first quarter 2007 with earnings per share that exceeded our prior guidance," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We had outstanding commercial enrollment growth in the quarter, adding 586,000 National Account members. National Account customers continue to be attracted by our superior value proposition."
"We have seen industry leading membership growth because WellPoint offers customers a unique combination of product breadth, flexibility and local market presence," said Angela F. Braly, who will succeed Larry C. Glasscock as president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. on June 1st. "We aspire to transform health care and become the most valued company in our industry by consistently delivering excellent service, the widest range of product choices, and access to the highest quality care at the best value."
"Operating cash flow of $2.0 billion, or 2.5 times net income, was very strong in the first quarter," said David C. Colby, vice chairman and chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We continue to deploy cash flow to maximize value for our shareholders. During the quarter, we repurchased 8.2 million shares of our common stock for $634.9 million. Our Board approved an additional $2.0 billion in share repurchase authorization, bringing our total authorization for 2007 to $3.0 billion, which we expect to utilize this year."
 
Medical enrollment totaled 34.9 million members at March 31, 2007, an increase of 717,000 members from 34.2 million reported at March 31, 2006. The increase was driven by National Accounts and State Sponsored business, which added 621,000 members and 340,000 members, respectively, over the last twelve months. Growth from the prior year in State Sponsored business excludes the impact of the change in the Company's 50 percent ownership interest in a joint venture in Puerto Rico to a smaller percentage ownership in the joint venture's parent company. Accordingly, the Company no longer includes the 222,000 members related to this investment in its enrollment. Membership in consumer-directed health plans also increased by 57.1 percent in the past twelve months, now totaling 1.1 million members. This growth was partially offset by declines in Local Group and Individual business.
Membership:
During the first quarter of 2007, medical enrollment grew by 774,000 members, led primarily by growth in National Accounts. National Account employers are increasingly attracted to the benefits of WellPoint's distinctive value proposition, which includes extensive and cost-effective provider networks and a broad and innovative product portfolio. Also during the quarter, the Company began Medicaid operations in Indiana and Kansas and had continued growth in other State Sponsored geographies.
Operating revenue was $14.8 billion in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 8.8 percent from $13.6 billion in the prior year first quarter. The increase resulted primarily from premium rate increases in Local Group business, growth in the Medicare Advantage business, having additional Part D members for the entire first quarter in 2007, increased reimbursement in the Federal Employee Program ("FEP"), and higher State Sponsored membership.
Operating Revenue:
The benefit expense ratio was 83.1 percent in the first quarter of 2007, a 180 basis point increase compared with 81.3 percent in the first quarter of 2006, with the largest portion of the increase attributable to the medical business of the Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored business segment.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
The benefit expense ratio in the Company's Senior business increased by 350 basis points from the prior year quarter, mostly due to Medicare Part D. As expected, Medicare Part D has a significantly higher benefit expense ratio in the early part of the year, before members reach the coverage "doughnut hole," and a much lower benefit expense ratio later in the year. This seasonality of the Medicare Part D business was more pronounced in the first quarter of 2007, as the majority of the membership was effective for a full quarter this year, while the 2006 membership was gradually enrolled during the first five months of 2006. Also, certain Part D claims in 2006 were incurred in the first quarter, but not recorded until the fourth quarter (i.e., claims from State Medicaid programs), due to the CMS reconciliation process.
Increases in State Sponsored claims experience in certain geographies caused the benefit expense ratio to increase by 630 basis points in that line of business between the first quarters of 2006 and 2007. Benefit expense ratios were unacceptably high in two states, neither of which is among the five new states the Company began serving during the past year. The Company has negotiated rate increases in two California counties and anticipates receiving rate increases in the remaining California counties effective October 1, 2007. The Company also anticipates a rate increase in the other state effective July 1, 2007. Additionally, the Company has implemented numerous cost of care initiatives to
 
improve financial performance in these geographies. The Company remains disciplined in its pricing and will take appropriate action if acceptable reimbursement cannot be obtained.
The Company's Commercial and Consumer business recognized an increase in its benefit expense ratio due primarily to the timing of prior period development in 2006, and this also unfavorably impacted the consolidated benefit expense ratio. Excluding the impact of those prior period developments, the benefit expense ratio declined slightly.
Continued growth in the Company's FEP business, for which the Company is reimbursed for its costs plus a fee, also caused the consolidated benefit expense ratio to increase as this business operates with a benefit expense ratio higher than the Company average.
Due to adjusted estimates and expected actions in our State Sponsored businesses through 2007, the Company now expects the benefit expense ratio to be 81.9 percent for the year, which is 40 basis points higher than prior guidance.
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Local Group and Individual fully-insured businesses.
For the rolling 12-month period ended March 31, 2007, the primary drivers of medical trend were inpatient and outpatient costs. The Company continues to price its commercial business so that expected premium yield exceeds total cost trend, where total cost trend includes medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense.
Based on medical trends in the first quarter 2007, the Company remains comfortable with its 2007 medical cost trend estimate of less than 8.0 percent.
The SG&A expense ratio was 14.4 percent in the first quarter of 2007, a decrease of 150 basis points from 15.9 percent in the first quarter of 2006. The ratio improved year-over-year as the Company spread administrative expenses across a growing revenue base, continued to control expenses, and postponed discretionary spending due to higher claims seasonality in the quarter.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
Since the Company postponed certain discretionary spending until later in the year due to the higher first quarter claims seasonality, the SG&A expense ratio is expected to increase during the remainder of 2007, and be 14.6 percent for the year.
For the three months ended March 31, 2007, operating cash flow totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.5 times net income. The results included the receipt of an additional CMS payment totaling $429.2 million related to the second quarter of 2007. Excluding this additional CMS payment, the first quarter operating cash flow was 2.0 times net income.
Operating Cash Flow:
Days in claims payable as of March 31, 2007, was 44.7 days, a decrease of 0.5 days from 45.2 days as of December 31, 2006. The decline was primarily due to the timing of medical claim payments and the payment of provider settlements related to 2006, which were partially offset by the timing of claim payments in the pharmacy benefit management ("PBM") operation.
Days in Claims Payable:
During the first quarter 2007, the Company repurchased 8.2 million shares of its common stock for $634.9 million. Also during the quarter, the Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization from $1.0 billion to $3.0 billion for the year. As of March 31, 2007, the Company's remaining Board-approved share repurchase authorization was $2.3 billion.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
The Company intends to utilize the remaining authorization during 2007, subject to market conditions. At March 31, 2007, cash and investments held at the parent company and available for general corporate use totaled $2.5 billion.
In 2007, WellPoint, Inc. now has the following reportable segments: Commercial and Consumer Business ("CCB"), Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored business ("4SB"), and Other, which includes FEP business, National Government Services, Inc., intersegment sales and expense eliminations, and corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments. These revised segments are consistent with the Company's new organizational structure.
Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
Operating gain for the CCB segment was $1,013.8 million in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 3.2 percent, compared with $982.1 million in the first quarter of 2006. The year-over-year improvement was primarily due to premium rate increases across all lines of business and continued overhead expense control, which were partially offset by a higher benefit expense ratio.
Commercial and Consumer Business:
 
Operating gain for the 4SB segment totaled $143.2 million in the first quarter of 2007, a decrease of 13.7 percent compared with $166.0 million in the first quarter of 2006. The decrease resulted primarily from higher benefit expenses in the Company's Senior businesses and increases in State Sponsored claims experience in certain geographies, which were partially offset by increased mail order volume.
Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored Business:
Operating gain for the Other segment totaled $16.3 million in the first quarter of 2007, an increase from the operating loss of $12.6 million in the first quarter of 2006. The improvement resulted primarily from lower corporate expenses and continued growth in FEP business, for which the Company is reimbursed for its costs plus a fee.
Other:
Full Year 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2007:
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its first quarter earnings results. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 857269. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on May 9, 2007. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
Contacts:
 
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint's mission is to improve the lives of the people it serves and the health of its communities. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of commercial membership in the United States. Through its nationwide networks, the company delivers a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, pharmacy benefit management, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits, managed care and pharmacy benefit management operations; risks and uncertainties regarding the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug benefits program, including potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment (including facilitated enrollment), inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process information, uncollectability of premium from members, increased pharmaceutical costs, and the underlying seasonality of the business; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; other potential uses of cash in the future that present attractive alternatives to share repurchases; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellChoice, Inc. acquisition within the expected time frames or at all, and to successfully integrate our operations; our ability to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's various SEC reports, including but not limited to WellPoint's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 


