FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20070124061527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 24, 2007, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 24, 2007
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 January 24, 2007  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that fourth quarter 2006 net income was $801.1 million, or $1.28 per share. These results included $0.01 per share in net realized investment gains. Net income in the fourth quarter of 2005 was $652.0 million, or $1.04 per share, including $0.01 per share in net realized investment losses.
Indianapolis, IN
Full year 2006 net income was $4.82 per share, including $0.04 per share in tax benefits resulting from a change in state tax apportionment factors following the WellChoice acquisition. Net income for the full year of 2005 was $3.94 per share. The 2005 results included expenses of $0.10 per share due to the multi-district settlement agreement and net realized investment losses of $0.01 per share, partially offset by benefits of $0.04 per share for the favorable resolution of a tax matter relating to the sale of certain subsidiaries in the mid-1990s.
"Throughout 2006, we introduced a number of new products and services that were focused on improving the health of our members, enhancing quality, and providing more options to meet the diverse needs of consumers across the country," said Larry C. Glasscock, chairman, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We achieved continued strong growth in our National Accounts business, successfully introduced Medicare Part D products, with enrollment reaching 1.6 million members by year-end, and won five new state contracts to manage approximately 500,000 Medicaid managed care lives. We are well positioned for future growth with an array of innovative products and services that engage the consumer and promote the delivery of affordable, quality health care, including 360
o
Health, an innovative integrated health, well-being, and medical management program, and Lumenos Consumer Driven Health Plans ("CDHP")."
 
"Our financial performance for 2006 was very strong, led by earnings per share growth of 22 percent for the year," said David C. Colby, executive vice president and chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We continued to price our products with discipline and significantly reduce administrative costs as a percentage of total revenue. Earnings quality was high, as evidenced by operating cash flow in excess of $4.0 billion, or 130 percent of net income. We also continued our share buy-back program, repurchasing nearly $4.6 billion, or 9.2 percent, of our outstanding shares during 2006. We will continue to deploy our cash flow in a manner that strengthens operations and enhances shareholder value in 2007, and expect to return excess capital to our shareholders through our share repurchase program."
On December 28, 2005, WellPoint, Inc. acquired WellChoice, Inc. For accounting purposes, the transaction was assumed to have closed on December 31, 2005. Accordingly, operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. are included in reported financial results for the periods ended in 2006. However, operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. are not included in reported financial results for the periods ended in 2005.
Unless otherwise indicated, the analysis in this press release compares reported financial results and does not adjust results for the effects of this acquisition. In certain areas, we have included "comparable basis" analyses that we believe provide more meaningful comparisons between periods, due to the inclusion of operations of the former WellChoice, Inc. in the comparable historical results. The "comparable basis" information is not calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported had the acquisition been completed as of the beginning of the periods presented, and should not be taken as representative or indicative of our future results. The methodologies for calculating the comparable basis information are either described within the text of the press release, or in the tables at the end of the press release where such comparable basis information is reconciled to WellPoint, Inc.'s reported GAAP financial results.
Medical enrollment totaled 34.1 million members at December 31, 2006. During the quarter, the Company's ownership of a joint venture in Puerto Rico changed from a 50 percent ownership of a Medicaid managed care subsidiary to a smaller percentage ownership in the joint venture's parent company. Accordingly, the Company will no longer include the 222,000 members related to this investment in its reported enrollment, but will continue to receive financial benefits from these members, along with the commercial and Medicare members of the joint venture's parent company.
Membership:
Excluding the impact of this 222,000 member accounting adjustment, the Company's membership increased by 467,000 members, or 1.4 percent, from the prior year. This increase was driven by the National Accounts business which added 632,000 members during the year, representing growth of 7.3 percent. Partially offsetting the strong performance in National Accounts was a decline of 348,000 members in the Large Group business resulting from the previously-announced losses of three large groups totaling approximately 444,000 members.
 
Operating revenue was $14.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006, an increase of 28.7 percent from $11.1 billion in the prior year quarter.
Operating Revenue:
On a comparable basis, fourth quarter 2006 operating revenue increased by $1.5 billion, or 12.0 percent, versus $12.8 billion in the prior year period. The increase resulted primarily from disciplined pricing, enrollment in the Company's Medicare Part D products, the addition of the New York state prescription drug contract in 2006, and increased reimbursement in the Federal Employee Program ("FEP").
The benefit expense ratio was 81.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, a 140 basis point increase compared with 79.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
On a comparable basis, the benefit expense ratio increased by 50 basis points, from 80.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. The ratio increased from the prior year due to growth in businesses with benefit expense ratios higher than the Company average, including the New York state prescription drug contract, FEP business (for which the Company is reimbursed for its costs plus a fee), Medicare Advantage plans, and State Sponsored programs. The impact of this shift in business mix was partially offset by other items, including Medicare Part D performance in the quarter.
Sequentially, the benefit expense ratio decreased by 20 basis points from 81.3 percent in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease was primarily due to seasonality, as the lower Medicare Part D benefit expense ratio was partially offset by higher medical claims resulting from more members reaching their deductibles towards the end of the calendar year. The benefit expense ratio did not decline as much as expected because the reduction in the Medicare Part D benefit expense ratio was smaller than expected due to liabilities incurred as a result of the CMS reconciliation process such as payments owed to state Medicaid programs offset by low income subsidy payments. Also during the quarter, the claims experience in FEP did not decline as much as anticipated and in three states the Company began Medicaid operations more quickly than expected. Medicaid programs typically experience a benefit expense ratio higher than the Company average.
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Large Group and ISG fully-insured businesses.
For the rolling 12-month period ended December 31, 2006, the primary drivers of medical trend were inpatient and outpatient costs. Full year 2006 medical cost trend was less than 8 percent, and the Company expects that full year 2007 medical cost trend will remain relatively flat at less than 8 percent. The Company continues to price its commercial business so that premium yield exceeds total cost trend, where total cost trend includes medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense.
The SG&A expense ratio was 15.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, a decrease of 100 basis points from 16.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. The current quarter included costs for expensing stock options in accordance with FAS 123R, which added 20 basis points to the SG&A ratio, and 10 basis points of severance costs associated with the recent reorganization.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
On a comparable basis, the SG&A expense ratio declined by 110 basis points, compared with 16.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. The ratio improved significantly year-over-year as the Company continued to control spending, spread administrative expenses across a growing revenue base, and realize integration synergies and efficiencies.
 
The SG&A expense ratio increased by 20 basis points compared with 15.5 percent in the third quarter of 2006. The increase primarily resulted from expenses relating to 2007 enrollment preparations, including investment in the Lumenos CDHP nationwide rollout, increased advertising for the Senior business open enrollment period, and the reorganization-related severance costs.
For the year ended December 31, 2006, operating cash flow totaled $4.0 billion, or 1.3 times net income. In the fourth quarter, operating cash flow totaled $1.4 billion or 1.8 times net income, which included payment of $209.5 million in previously-expensed settlement costs relating to the multi-district litigation.
Operating Cash Flow:
Days in claims payable as of December 31, 2006, was 45.2 days, a decrease of 0.4 days from 45.6 days as of September 30, 2006. This decline was primarily attributed to a reduction in the length of time between the date of service and claim payment, and the timing of payments in the pharmacy benefit management ("PBM") operation.
Days in Claims Payable:
During the fourth quarter 2006, the Company repurchased 7.3 million shares of its common stock for $550.2 million. For the full year of 2006, the Company repurchased 60.7 million shares for nearly $4.6 billion. As of December 31, 2006, the Company's remaining Board-approved share repurchase authorization was $949.8 million. The Company intends to utilize this authorization during early 2007, subject to market conditions. At December 31, 2006, cash and investments held at the parent company and available for general corporate use totaled approximately $1.7 billion.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
At December 31, 2006, WellPoint, Inc. had three reportable segments: Health Care, Specialty, and Other. Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
Operating gain for the Health Care segment was approximately $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006, an increase of 25.0 percent, compared with $878.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Health Care:
On a comparable basis, fourth quarter 2006 operating gain increased by $143.0 million, or 15.0 percent, compared with $954.9 million in the prior year quarter. Performance in the Health Care segment improved year-over-year due to disciplined pricing and underwriting, enrollment in the Company's Medicare Part D products, and continued SG&A expense control. Operating gain in the fourth quarter of 2006 included costs of $33.4 million for expensing stock options in accordance with FAS 123R and $15.9 million of net severance costs related to the recent reorganization.
 
Operating gain for the Specialty segment totaled $143.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, an increase of 7.8 percent compared with $132.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 on both a reported and comparable basis. The increase resulted primarily from higher prescription volume in the Company's PBM business with the addition of Medicare Part D and better overall generic mix in the mail-order operation. These increases in operating gain were partially offset by higher Vision claims expense, as favorable development in the fourth quarter of 2005 did not recur in the fourth quarter of 2006, and the sale of the Company's at-risk Workers' Compensation business at the end of 2005.
Specialty:
Full Year 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter 2007:
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time ("EST") to discuss its fourth quarter earnings results. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 850122. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EST today until the end of the day on February 7, 2007. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
Contacts:
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint's mission is to improve the lives of the people it serves and the health of its communities. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of commercial membership in the United States. Through its nationwide networks, the company delivers a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, pharmacy benefit management, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the adjusted ratios of prior year redundancies in the current period to prior year net incurred medical claims that are included in table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable."
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2006
This ratio is impacted by having no net incurred medical claims for the former WellChoice, Inc. ("WC") in 2005.
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2005
This ratio is impacted by having only one month of net incurred medical claims for the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WHN") in 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This "Comparable Basis" information contains no intercompany eliminations or pro forma adjustments resulting from WellPoint, Inc.'s acquisition of WellChoice, Inc.
"Comparable Basis" information is presented in order to provide investors with a more meaningful comparison to the current period, due to the acquisition of WellChoice, Inc.
"Comparable Basis" information is not calculated in accordance with GAAP and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported, had the acquisition been completed as of January 1, 2005.
 
 
This "Comparable Basis" information contains no intercompany eliminations or pro forma adjustments resulting from WellPoint, Inc.'s acquisition of WellChoice, Inc.
"Comparable Basis" information is presented in order to provide investors with a more meaningful comparison to the current period, due to the acquisition of WellChoice, Inc.
"Comparable Basis" information is not calculated in accordance with GAAP and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported, had the acquisition been completed as of January 1, 2005.
 
 
This "Comparable Basis" information contains no intercompany eliminations or pro forma adjustments resulting from WellPoint, Inc.'s acquisition of WellChoice, Inc.
"Comparable Basis" information is presented in order to provide investors with a more meaningful comparison to the current period, due to the acquisition of WellChoice, Inc.
"Comparable Basis" information is not calculated in accordance with GAAP and is not intended to represent or be indicative of the results that WellPoint, Inc. would have reported,
had the acquisition been completed as of January 1, 2005.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; increased government regulation of health benefits, managed care and pharmacy benefit management operations; risks and uncertainties regarding the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug benefits program, including potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment (including facilitated enrollment), inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process information, uncollectability of premium from members, increased pharmaceutical costs, and the underlying seasonality of the business; significant acquisitions or divestitures by major competitors; introduction and utilization of new prescription drugs and technology; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; other potential uses of cash in the future that present attractive alternatives to share repurchases; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellChoice, Inc. acquisition within the expected time frames or at all, and to successfully integrate our operations; our ability to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's various SEC reports, including but not limited to WellPoint's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the reporting periods of 2006.
 


