FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20071024061346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
 
On October 24, 2007, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 24, 2007
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 October 24, 2007  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that third quarter 2007 net income was $868.0 million, or $1.45 per share, which included $0.01 per share in net realized investment gains. Net income in the third quarter of 2006 was $810.8 million, or $1.29 per share, which included $0.04 per share in tax benefits due to a change in the Company's state tax apportionment factors, and net realized investment gains of $0.01 per share.
Indianapolis, IN
"We are pleased with our financial results for the third quarter and they reinforce the confidence we have in our future outlook. Our commercial health business performed particularly well during the quarter, and with more than 700,000 new members having joined WellPoint so far this year, we are now delivering more products and services to the marketplace than ever before," said Angela F. Braly, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "Importantly, we are continuing to find ways to operate more efficiently and reduce administrative costs as a percentage of revenue while providing superior service to our members."
"In 2008, we expect continued strong enrollment gains in National Accounts to be accompanied by new membership from our Medicaid contract awards in South Carolina and Indiana, and additional growth in our other commercial and senior businesses. Customers recognize the excellent value proposition we bring to the marketplace, and we expect to add more than 1,000,000 members in 2008. While we will release our detailed 2008 financial guidance in December, we remain committed to our earnings per share growth target of at least 15 percent," added Braly.
"We are committed to managing capital in a manner that improves our business and enhances equity returns for our shareholders," said Wayne S. DeVeydt, chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "We continued to execute on our share repurchase program during the third quarter, and through the first nine months of this year, we have repurchased 54.4 million shares of our common stock for $4.3 billion."
 
Medical enrollment totaled 34.8 million members at September 30, 2007, an increase of 615,000 members from 34.2 million reported at September 30, 2006. The increase was driven by National Accounts and State Sponsored business, which added 511,000 members and 336,000 members, respectively, over the last twelve months. Growth from the prior year in State Sponsored business excludes the impact of the change in the Company's 50 percent ownership interest in a joint venture in Puerto Rico to a smaller percentage ownership in the joint venture's parent company. Accordingly, the Company no longer includes the 222,000 members related to this investment in its enrollment but continues to realize financial benefits from these members.
Membership:
Enrollment increased by 38,000 members during the third quarter of 2007, as growth of 100,000 members in the Company's Blue-branded businesses was partially offset by declines of 62,000 members in the non-Blue branded businesses.
Operating revenue was $15.0 billion in the third quarter of 2007, an increase of 5.2 percent from $14.2 billion in the prior year third quarter. The increase resulted primarily from disciplined pricing in the Company's Local Group business and growth in State Sponsored and Medicare Advantage membership.
Operating Revenue:
The benefit expense ratio was 81.8 percent in the third quarter of 2007, an increase of 50 basis points from 81.3 percent in the prior year quarter. The increase was driven by an increase in the Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored Business reporting segment, partially offset by a decline in the benefit expense ratio for the Commercial and Consumer Business segment.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
The third quarter 2007 benefit expense ratio in the Company's Senior business was higher than anticipated primarily due to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") reconciliation of 2006 Medicare Part D claims activity. This process resulted in an amount due to CMS for Medicare Part D risk sharing that was higher than the Company's original projections. Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge in the third quarter that increased the consolidated benefit expense ratio by approximately 40 basis points. This charge related to claims activity for 2006 and 2007.
Higher claims experience in State Sponsored operations also increased the Company's overall benefit expense ratio from the third quarter of 2006. Contract negotiations in Connecticut and California are on-going and the Company continues to anticipate favorable resolutions that will allow it to continue to administer programs in both states into the future with acceptable margins. The Company expects to receive rate increases retroactive to July 1, 2007, in Connecticut, and October 1, 2007, in California.
These increases were partially offset by a decline in the Commercial and Consumer Business benefit expense ratio from the third quarter of 2006, reflecting the Company's commitment to disciplined pricing. The results from this segment represent over 70 percent of consolidated operating revenue.
 
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Local Group and Individual fully-insured businesses.
For the rolling 12-month period ended September 30, 2007, the primary driver of medical trend was the increase in unit cost. The Company continues to price its business so that expected premium yield exceeds total cost trend, where total cost trend includes medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense.
Based on medical trends through the first three quarters of 2007, the Company continues to believe its 2007 medical cost trend estimate of less than 8.0 percent is appropriate.
The SG&A expense ratio was 14.6 percent in the third quarter of 2007, a decrease of 90 basis points from 15.5 percent in the third quarter of 2006. The ratio improved year-over-year due to the Company's continued focus on optimizing administrative costs and spreading expenses across a growing revenue base. General and administrative expenses were $23.9 million lower in the third quarter of 2007 than in the prior year period, despite the addition of more than 700,000 new members to the Company's enrollment base during 2007.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, operating cash flow totaled $3.2 billion, or 1.3 times net income. Third quarter 2007 operating cash flow totaled $533.3 million, as the Company received only two CMS monthly payments averaging $538.9 million each. For the quarter, operating cash flow was 0.6 times net income. If three monthly CMS payments had been received during the quarter, operating cash flow would have been 1.2 times net income.
Operating Cash Flow:
Days in claims payable as of September 30, 2007, was 46.8 days, an increase of 1.3 days from 45.5 days as of June 30, 2007. The increase was primarily due to lower benefit expense per day, increased accruals for provider settlements, and the timing of pharmacy benefit management ("PBM") payments, partially offset by a reduction in the length of time between the date of service and claims payment.
Days in Claims Payable:
During the third quarter of 2007, the Company repurchased 30.1 million shares of its common stock for $2.4 billion. At September 30, 2007, cash and investments held at the parent company and available for general corporate use totaled $2.0 billion.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
WellPoint, Inc. has the following reportable segments: Commercial and Consumer Business ("CCB"), Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored Business ("4SB"), and Other, which includes FEP business, National Government Services, Inc., intersegment sales and expense eliminations, and corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.
Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
Operating gain for the CCB segment was $1.1 billion in the third quarter of 2007, an increase of 17.5 percent compared to $936.4 million in the third quarter of 2006. Operating performance continued to improve in this segment primarily due to disciplined pricing in the Local Group business. Employers and consumers continue to find excellent value in the Company's product offerings, which include broad and cost-effective provider networks, innovative and flexible health benefit designs, and distinctive customer service.
Commercial and Consumer Business:
The CCB benefit expense ratio declined by 40 basis points from the third quarter of 2006, and the SG&A expense ratio continued to improve, as the Company remained disciplined in its pricing and continued to leverage administrative costs across a growing revenue base.
 
Operating gain for the 4SB segment totaled $224.0 million in the third quarter of 2007, a decrease of 21.2 percent compared to $284.3 million in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease was primarily attributable to higher-than-expected costs recorded in the current quarter as a result of the accrual for CMS Medicare Part D 2006 and 2007 risk sharing payments.
Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored Business:
Operating loss for the Other segment totaled $26.4 million in the third quarter of 2007, which compares to an operating loss of $13.1 million in the third quarter of 2006. The change resulted primarily from higher corporate expenses during the quarter.
Other:
Full Year 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Year 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its third quarter earnings results and updated outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 857271. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on November 7, 2007. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
Contacts:
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint's mission is to improve the lives of the people it serves and the health of its communities. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of commercial membership in the United States. Through its nationwide networks, the company delivers a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, pharmacy benefit management, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the adjusted ratios of prior year redundancies in the current period to prior year net incurred medical claims that are included in table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable."
Ratio for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2006
This ratio is impacted by having no net incurred medical claims for the former WellChoice, Inc. ("WC") in 2005.
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2006
This ratio is impacted by having no net incurred medical claims for the former WellChoice, Inc. ("WC") in 2005.
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2005
This ratio is impacted by having only one month of net incurred medical claims for the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WHN") in 2004.
 
 
 
 
This document contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not generally historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)", "intend", "estimate", "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint; increased government regulation of health benefits, managed care and pharmacy benefit management operations; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; reduced enrollment, as well as a negative change in our health care product mix; risks and uncertainties regarding the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug benefits program, including potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment (including facilitated enrollment), inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process information, uncollectability of premium from members, increased pharmaceutical costs, and the underlying seasonality of the business; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellChoice, Inc. acquisition within the expected time frames or at all, and to successfully integrate our operations; our ability to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock; funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs and the complex regulations imposed on Medicare fiscal intermediaries; events that result in negative publicity for the health benefits industry; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems and e-business organization and to maintain good relationships with third party vendors for information system resources; events that may negatively affect our license with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; intense competition to attract and retain employees; unauthorized disclosure of member sensitive or confidential information; changes in the economic and market conditions, as well as regulations, applicable to our investment portfolios; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital and the potential negative affect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; general risks associated with mergers and acquisitions; various laws and our governing documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations; potential hedging activities in our common stock; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities law, WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's SEC reports.
 


