FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20070809154936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On August 9, 2007, the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Jamie S. Miller, age 38, as Chief Accounting Officer of the Company effective as of August 15, 2007. Ms. Miller will replace Wayne S. DeVeydt as Chief Accounting Officer and Mr. DeVeydt will continue as the Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Miller served with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in many roles, including most recently as the Financial Services leader for the Chicago practice. Prior to her current role at PricewaterhouseCoopers, she was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer at Genworth Financial.
On or about August 15, 2007, it is anticipated that Ms. Miller will enter into the Company Form Employment Agreement, which form agreement was filed as Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. If Ms. Miller enters into the Company Form Employment Agreement, she will become a participant in the WellPoint, Inc. Executive Agreement Plan and subject to the covenants and restrictions contained therein.
The text of the Company's press release announcing Ms. Miller's appointment is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 9, 2007
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
August 9, 2007WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced the appointment of Jamie S. Miller as senior vice president and chief accounting officer. She will be responsible for all corporate accounting operations, the integrity of the company's financial records, SEC reporting, finance shared services including project management, investor relations and the execution of tax policies.
Indianapolis, IN 
"Jamie has an exceptional track record in leading high performing teams and her deep background in accounting and financial management will be a great addition to our leadership team," said Wayne S. DeVeydt, executive vice president and chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "Clearly, as WellPoint continues to expand the benefits and services it offers through its health plans, Jamie and her team will be very important in helping to manage the financial resources and support for those initiatives."
Prior to joining WellPoint, Jamie served with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in a number of roles including, most recently, as the Financial Services leader for the Chicago practice. She was the lead partner for a number of large, national, insurance and financial services companies. Prior to her current role at PricewaterhouseCoopers, she was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer at Genworth Financial.
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint's mission is to improve the lives of the people it serves and the health of its communities. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of commercial membership in the United States. Through its nationwide networks, the company delivers a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, pharmacy benefit
 
management, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as Empire Blue Cross or Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 


