FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20070725062849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
 
On July 25, 2007, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 25, 2007
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 July 25, 2007  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that second quarter 2007 net income was $835.2 million, or $1.35 per share, representing 15.4 percent growth over the second quarter of 2006. Net income in the second quarter of 2006 was $751.2 million, or $1.17 per share, including $0.01 per share in net realized investment losses. The benefit expense ratio was 81.8 percent in the second quarter of 2007, an increase of 60 basis points compared to 81.2 percent in the second quarter of 2006, and a 130 basis point improvement from 83.1 percent in the first quarter of 2007.
Indianapolis, IN
"We continue to demonstrate our ability to consistently deliver strong earnings growth while also providing members with new benefit options and services that improve the affordability and quality of the health care they receive," said Angela F. Braly, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "As a result of our efforts during the first half of the year, we are raising our full year earnings guidance to $5.55 per share and continue to target long-term annual earnings per share growth of 15 percent. At the same time, we continue to expand our efforts to find new solutions for those who do not have health insurance in addition to undertaking strategic initiatives to reduce growth in health care expenditures, increase transparency, and promote improved quality."
"Our solid financial performance is reflective of our continued commitment to improve operational efficiency and effectively deploy our capital," said Wayne S. DeVeydt, chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "In the first six months of 2007, we generated operating cash flow of $2.7 billion, which allowed us to repurchase 24.4 million shares of our common stock for $2.0 billion. As of June 30, 2007, our remaining Board-approved authorization was $1.0 billion, which we intend to utilize during the remainder of the year. We continue to expect full year 2007 operating cash flow of $4.4 billion."
 
Medical enrollment totaled 34.8 million members at June 30, 2007, an increase of 604,000 members from 34.2 million reported at June 30, 2006. The increase was driven by National Accounts and State Sponsored business, which added 477,000 members and 364,000 members, respectively, over the last twelve months. Growth from the prior year in State Sponsored business excludes the impact of the change in the Company's 50 percent ownership interest in a joint venture in Puerto Rico to a smaller percentage ownership in the joint venture's parent company. Accordingly, the Company no longer includes the 222,000 members related to this investment in its enrollment. This growth was partially offset by declines in Individual and Local Group business.
Membership:
During the second quarter of 2007, medical enrollment declined by 108,000 members, led primarily by higher-than-expected in-group declines in National Accounts, as the Company was impacted by employee reductions in various industries, including the automobile, home building, mortgage, and related sectors. The Company also experienced lower sequential claims volume in the BlueCard program, which resulted in lower BlueCard membership as this membership is estimated in part by the average BlueCard claims processed in the period.
Sequentially, medical enrollment in Individual declined by 24,000 members as rate increases were implemented in certain geographies. Local Group enrollment was essentially flat as growth in the Company's Blue branded business was offset by membership losses in the Company's non-Blue branded businesses. State Sponsored enrollment increased by 31,000 members during the quarter.
Operating revenue was $15.0 billion in the second quarter of 2007, an increase of 7.5 percent from $14.0 billion in the prior year second quarter. The increase resulted primarily from disciplined pricing in Local Group business, growth in State Sponsored, Medicare Advantage, and Medicare Part D membership, and increased reimbursement in the Federal Employee Program ("FEP").
Operating Revenue:
The benefit expense ratio was 81.8 percent in the second quarter of 2007, a 130 basis point improvement from 83.1 percent in the first quarter of 2007, driven primarily by a lower benefit expense ratio in the Commercial and Consumer Business segment and the expected seasonality of the Senior businesses. Additionally, the benefit expense ratio in State Sponsored operations improved slightly due to the implementation of various cost of care initiatives and expected seasonality.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
The benefit expense ratio increased 60 basis points compared to 81.2 percent in the second quarter of 2006. The 60 basis point increase from the prior year is primarily attributable to the Company's Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored Business segment.
Increases in State Sponsored claims experience in certain geographies caused the benefit expense ratio to increase by 440 basis points in that line of business between the second quarters of 2006 and 2007. Benefit expense ratios were unacceptably high in California and Connecticut. The Company continues to anticipate receiving rate increases in California effective October 1, 2007 and in Connecticut retroactive to July 1, 2007. Additionally, the Company has implemented numerous cost of care initiatives to improve financial performance in these geographies. The Company remains disciplined in its pricing and will take appropriate action if acceptable reimbursement cannot be obtained.
 
The Life and Disability benefit expense ratio was also higher in the second quarter of 2007 when compared to the second quarter of 2006, as the prior year period was favorably impacted by a change in experience factors for waiver of premium reserves that did not recur in 2007.
As expected, these increases were partially offset by a year-over-year improvement in the benefit expense ratio for the Company's Commercial and Consumer Business segment, reflecting disciplined underwriting and the timing of prior period development in 2006.
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Local Group and Individual fully-insured businesses.
For the rolling 12-month period ended June 30, 2007, the primary drivers of medical trend were outpatient and inpatient costs. The Company continues to price its commercial business so that expected premium yield exceeds total cost trend, where total cost trend includes medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense.
Based on medical trends in the first and second quarters of 2007, the Company continues to believe its 2007 medical cost trend estimate of less than 8.0 percent is appropriate.
The SG&A expense ratio was 15.1 percent in the second quarter of 2007, a decrease of 60 basis points from 15.7 percent in the second quarter of 2006. The ratio improved year-over-year as the Company continued to control spending and spread administrative expenses across a growing revenue base.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
The SG&A expense ratio increased 70 basis points from the first quarter of 2007 as the Company resumed the discretionary spending that had been postponed in the first quarter.
For the six months ended June 30, 2007, operating cash flow totaled $2.7 billion, or 1.7 times net income. As expected, the second quarter operating cash flow of $725.9 million was lower than the first quarter as the Company made two federal income tax payments during the period totaling $802.1 million and received one additional CMS payment in the first quarter of 2007.
Operating Cash Flow:
Days in claims payable as of June 30, 2007, was 45.5 days, an increase of 0.8 days from 44.7 days as of March 31, 2007. The increase was primarily due to lower benefit expense per day, the timing of medical claim payments, and increased provider incentive accruals, which were partially offset by the timing of claim payments in the pharmacy benefit management ("PBM") operation.
Days in Claims Payable:
During the second quarter of 2007, the Company repurchased 16.2 million shares of its common stock for $1.3 billion. As of June 30, 2007, the Company's remaining Board-approved share repurchase authorization was $1.0 billion. The Company intends to utilize the remaining authorization during 2007, subject to market conditions. At June 30, 2007, cash and investments held at the parent company and available for general corporate use totaled $2.7 billion.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
WellPoint, Inc. has the following reportable segments: Commercial and Consumer Business ("CCB"), Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored Business ("4SB"), and Other, which includes FEP business, National Government Services, Inc., intersegment sales and expense eliminations, and corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.
Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
Operating gain for the CCB segment was $1,013.9 million in the second quarter of 2007, an increase of 11.9 percent compared to $906.3 million in the second quarter of 2006. Improved performance in the CCB segment resulted from disciplined pricing and the timing of prior period development in 2006.
Commercial and Consumer Business:
Operating gain for the 4SB segment totaled $212.8 million in the second quarter of 2007, a decrease of 25.9 percent compared to $287.0 million in the second quarter of 2006. The decrease from prior year is primarily attributable to higher medical claims experience in certain State Sponsored geographies in 2007 and the favorable impact of a change in experience factors for Life and Disability waiver of premium reserves recorded in the second quarter of 2006 that did not recur in 2007.
Specialty, Senior, and State Sponsored Business:
 
Operating gain for the Other segment totaled $7.3 million in the second quarter of 2007, an improvement from the operating loss of $21.2 million in the second quarter of 2006. The improvement resulted primarily from lower corporate expenses.
Other:
Full Year 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter 2007:
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its second quarter earnings results. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 857270. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on August 8, 2007. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
Contacts:
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint's mission is to improve the lives of the people it serves and the health of its communities. WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of commercial membership in the United States. Through its nationwide networks, the company delivers a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, pharmacy benefit management, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as Blue Cross Blue Shield in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the adjusted ratios of prior year redundancies in the current period to prior year net incurred medical claims that are included in table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable."
Ratio for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2006
This ratio is impacted by having no net incurred medical claims for the former WellChoice, Inc. ("WC") in 2005.
 
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2006
This ratio is impacted by having no net incurred medical claims for the former WellChoice, Inc. ("WC") in 2005.
 
 
Ratio for the Year Ended December 31, 2005
This ratio is impacted by having only one month of net incurred medical claims for the former WellPoint Health Networks Inc. ("WHN") in 2004.
 
 
 
This document contains certain forward-looking information about WellPoint, Inc. ("WellPoint") that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not generally historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)", "intend", "estimate", "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of WellPoint, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") made by WellPoint; increased government regulation of health benefits, managed care and pharmacy benefit management operations; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; reduced enrollment, as well as a negative change in our health care product mix; risks and uncertainties regarding the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug benefits program, including potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment (including facilitated enrollment), inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process information, uncollectability of premium from members, increased pharmaceutical costs, and the underlying seasonality of the business; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the WellChoice, Inc. acquisition within the expected time frames or at all, and to successfully integrate our operations; our ability to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock; funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs and the complex regulations imposed on Medicare fiscal intermediaries; events that result in negative publicity for the health benefits industry; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems and e-business organization and to maintain good relationships with third party vendors for information system resources; events that may negatively affect our license with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; intense competition to attract and retain employees; unauthorized disclosure of member sensitive or confidential information; changes in the economic and market conditions, as well as regulations, applicable to our investment portfolios; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital and the potential negative affect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; general risks associated with mergers and acquisitions; various laws and our governing documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations; potential hedging activities in our common stock; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities law, WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in WellPoint's SEC reports.
 


