FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20080723061622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
 
On July 23, 2008, WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 July 23, 2008  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that second quarter 2008 net income was $750.5 million, or $1.44 per share, which included net realized investment losses of $0.03 per share. Net income in the second quarter of 2007 was $835.2 million, or $1.35 per share.
Indianapolis, IN
"During the second quarter, we continued to execute on our performance improvement plan and we are seeing positive results from these efforts," said Angela F. Braly, president and chief executive officer of WellPoint, Inc. "As of June 30, 2008, claims inventories for fully insured business are down 23 percent from year-end 2007, and our claims-processing speeds have increased. This provides greater visibility into medical cost trends and enables us to more accurately price our business. Increased claims-processing speeds also improve our ability to provide high quality service to our customers and providers."
"Based on results through the first six months of the year, including membership mix changes, lower fully insured membership and our settlement of certain California rescission issues, we have narrowed our 2008 earnings per share guidance range," added Braly.
"We are the nation's largest health benefits company in terms of membership, and the local market leader in almost all of the 14 states where we hold the Blue Cross or Blue Cross and Blue Shield license. As the leader, we price our products in a disciplined and actuarially sound manner," said Wayne S. DeVeydt, executive vice president and chief financial officer of WellPoint, Inc. "While our membership declined in the quarter primarily due to our withdrawal from the Ohio Covered Families and Children Medicaid program, we already have several new National Account wins for 2009 and expect continued membership growth in that business."
 
Medical enrollment totaled approximately 35.3 million members at June 30, 2008, an increase of 507,000 members, or 1.5 percent, from 34.8 million at June 30, 2007. The increase was driven by the National business, which added 626,000 members over the past 12 months. Enrollment in the Company's Senior products increased by 66,000 members. The growth in National and Senior membership was partially offset by attrition of 135,000 members in the Individual and Local Group businesses, and a decline of 54,000 in State Sponsored programs.
Membership:
During the second quarter of 2008, medical enrollment declined sequentially by 99,000 members, or 0.3 percent, due primarily to the Company's previously announced withdrawal from the Ohio Covered Families and Children Medicaid program. Local Group and Individual membership declined by 57,000 members driven by disciplined pricing, while National enrollment increased by 45,000.
The Company expects medical enrollment to decline by approximately 150,000 members during the second half of 2008, as projected enrollment declines in the 205,000 member Connecticut Medicaid program will be partially offset by growth in the Commercial self-funded businesses.
Operating revenue was $15.5 billion in the second quarter of 2008, an increase of 3.1 percent from $15.0 billion in the second quarter of 2007. The increase was driven primarily by premium rate increases in all medical lines of business and growth in the Company's Medicare Advantage products. These increases in revenue were partially offset by the loss of the New York State prescription drug contract and lower Commercial and State Sponsored fully insured membership.
Operating Revenue:
The benefit expense ratio was 83.3 percent in the second quarter of 2008, an increase of 150 basis points from 81.8 percent in the prior year quarter. Approximately 90 basis points of the increase resulted from higher medical costs and membership mix changes in the Local Group business. Higher medical costs in the Company's Medicare Advantage products increased the consolidated benefit expense ratio by another 45 basis points. These increases were partially offset by the loss of the New York State prescription drug contract, which had a benefit expense ratio higher than the Company average. The Company continues to adjust pricing and benefit plan designs to address the higher medical costs in its Local Group and Medicare Advantage businesses.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
The benefit expense ratio declined by 180 basis points from the first quarter of 2008 primarily due to seasonality in the Senior business, including the Medicare Part D drug benefit design, and favorable prior period reserve adjustments.
Premium and Cost Trends:
Trends include Local Group and Individual fully-insured businesses.
For the twelve month period ended June 30, 2008, unit cost increases continue to be the primary driver of medical cost trends. Medical cost trends for the full year of 2008 are expected to be in the range of 8.0 percent, plus or minus 50 basis points, and the Company continues to price its business so that expected premium yield exceeds total cost trend, where total cost trend includes medical costs and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense.
The SG&A expense ratio was 14.3 percent in the second quarter of 2008, a decline of 80 basis points from 15.1 percent in the second quarter of 2007. The decline primarily resulted from reduced incentive compensation in the current year quarter.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
 
Operating cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was $1.1 billion, or 0.9 times net income. The decrease in operating cash flow from 2007 was driven primarily by the timing of payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, increases in receivables due to membership growth, claims inventory reductions and other actions we have taken in response to our systems migrations, and lower net income in 2008. The Company now expects operating cash flow of approximately $3.0 billion for the full year of 2008.
Operating Cash Flow:
Days in Claims Payable ("DCP") as of June 30, 2008 was 47.7 days, a 0.4 day decrease from 48.1 days at March 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction in the length of time between the date of service and claims payment and changes in the timing of payments in the company's Pharmacy Benefit Management ("PBM") operation, partially offset by prior period reserve adjustments.
Days in Claims Payable:
During the second quarter of 2008, the Company repurchased 16.8 million shares of its common stock for $866.6 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2008, the Company repurchased 46.5 million shares for approximately $2.9 billion. As of June 30, 2008, the remaining Board-approved share repurchase authorization was approximately $1.4 billion, and cash and investments held at the parent company and available for general corporate use totaled $932.8 million.
Share Repurchase Program:
 
In 2008, WellPoint, Inc. has the following reportable segments: Commercial Business, which includes the Local Group, National, UniCare, and Specialty Products lines of business; Consumer Business, which includes the Individual, Senior, and State Sponsored lines of business; and Other, which includes Comprehensive Health Solutions (including the Company's PBM and Behavioral Health operations), Federal Employee Plan or "FEP" business, National Government Services, inter-segment sales and expense eliminations, and corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments. These segments are consistent with the Company's organizational structure.
Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
 
Operating gain for the Commercial Business segment was $820.7 million in the second quarter of 2008, a decrease of 11.6 percent compared with $928.8 million in the second quarter of 2007. The decline principally resulted from higher medical costs and membership mix changes in the Local Group business. Membership in the Commercial segment increased by 546,000, or 2.0 percent, from the second quarter of 2007, as growth in self-funded enrollment was partially offset by a decline in fully insured membership. The Company is executing on a series of initiatives, including account retention programs, broker incentive programs and the introduction of new products, all focused on growing Commercial fully insured enrollment.
Commercial Business:
Operating gain for the Consumer Business segment was $223.7 million in the second quarter of 2008, an increase of 5.5 percent compared with $212.0 million in the second quarter of 2007. The increase reflected an improvement in Medicare Supplement and State Sponsored operating results, partially offset by deterioration in the performance of the Company's Medicare Advantage business, as benefit designs of certain Medicare Advantage products have resulted in adverse selection. The Company has implemented medical management initiatives to address high claims experience in its Medicare Advantage business and will adjust benefits and pricing for 2009.
Consumer Business:
Operating gain for the Other segment totaled $139.9 million in the second quarter of 2008, an increase of 50.1 percent compared with $93.2 million in the prior year quarter. The increase was driven by growth in the PBM operation, including a 7.5 percent increase in processed prescription volume. Behavioral Health results also improved from the prior year quarter as enrollment increased by approximately 3.4 million lives, or 16.8 percent, driven by the conversion of New York membership to the WellPoint Behavioral Health Company.
Other:
Full Year 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its second quarter earnings results and updated outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 908943. The replay will be available from 1:45 p.m. EDT today until the end of the day on August 6, 2008. The call will also be available through a live webcast at under "Investor Info." A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of medical membership in the United States. WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as the Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as the Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Below are reconciliations for the adjusted ratios of prior year redundancies in the current period to prior year net incurred medical claims that are included in table entitled, "Reconciliation of Medical Claims Payable."
 
 
This document contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not generally historical facts. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)", "intend", "estimate", "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in our public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; increased government regulation of health benefits, managed care and PBM operations; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rate increases; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; reduced enrollment, as well as a negative change in our health care product mix; risks and uncertainties regarding the Medicare Part C and Medicare Part D Prescription Drug benefits programs, including potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment (including facilitated enrollment), inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process correct information, uncollectability of premium from members, increased medical or pharmaceutical costs, and the underlying seasonality of the business; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; our ability to meet expectations regarding repurchases of shares of our common stock; funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs; non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed on Medicare and Medicaid programs; events that result in negative publicity for the health benefits industry; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems and e-business organization and to maintain good relationships with third party vendors for information system resources; events that may negatively affect our license with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; intense competition to attract and retain employees; unauthorized disclosure of member sensitive or confidential information; changes in the economic and market conditions, as well as regulations, applicable to our investment portfolios; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital and the potential negative affect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; general risks associated with mergers and acquisitions; various laws and our governing documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations; future bio-terrorist activity or other potential public health epidemics; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities law, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in our SEC reports.
 


