FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20080822090109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 21, 2008, the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Martin L. Miller, age 46, as Chief Accounting Officer of the Company effective as of September 15, 2008. Mr. Miller will also serve as Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company. Mr. Miller will replace John E. Gallina as Chief Accounting Officer and Mr. Gallina will continue as the Chief Financial Officer, Comprehensive Health Solutions unit of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Miller served as vice president and global controller for Molson Coors Brewing Company. Prior thereto, he served in various roles for Coca-Cola Company, including regional and divisional chief financial officer. Mr. Miller is a certified public accountant.
Mr. Miller has entered into the Company Form Employment Agreement, which form agreement was filed as Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.27(c) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. As a result of Mr. Miller entering into the Company Form Employment Agreement, he is a participant in the WellPoint, Inc. Executive Agreement Plan and subject to the covenants and restrictions contained therein.
The text of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Miller's appointment is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 22, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 August 22, 2008  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced the appointments of Lori Beer as executive vice president and chief information officer and Martin Miller as senior vice president, chief accounting officer and controller.
Indianapolis
Beer, who had been acting chief information officer since May, will continue to report to Angela Braly, president and chief executive officer. Beer has more than 20 years of information technology experience, including more than 10 years at WellPoint.
"Lori's strong leadership combined with her focus on delivering a technology strategy aligned to meet the needs of providers, customers and members make her the right choice to lead this critically important division," said Braly. "She and our IT team are focused on finding ways to deploy technology to make it faster and simpler to do business with us while reducing costs."
Miller is joining WellPoint from Molson Coors Brewing Company and will report to Wayne DeVeydt, executive vice president and chief financial officer.
Miller's responsibilities will include integrity of the company's financial records, SEC and regulatory reporting, finance and accounting policies, corporate financial planning and analysis, corporate cost and budget, tax planning and compliance, financial data and systems management, and compliance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Miller is a Certified Public Accountant with over 20 years of experience. Prior to Molson Coors Brewing Company, Miller spent 11 years with the Coca-Cola Company, where he had increasingly responsible roles including those of regional and divisional chief financial officer.
"Marty is a highly accomplished finance executive with experience in complex, multi-national companies and will be a great leadership addition to the company's financial team," said DeVeydt.
Contacts:
Media
Todd Siesky, 317-488-6548
Investor Relations
Michael Kleinman, 317-488-6713
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of medical membership in the United States. WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as the Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as the Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at www.wellpoint.com .


