FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20100203061458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5 Corporate Governance and Management
 
On February 2, 2010, the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company") accepted the resignation of Mr. Larry C. Glasscock as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company to be effective as of March 1, 2010 due to his retirement. Mr. Glasscock's retirement was not caused by any disagreement with the Company.
On February 2, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Angela F. Braly, 48, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, to the additional position of Chair of the Board of Directors of the Company, effective as of March 1, 2010.
The text of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Glasscock's retirement and Ms. Braly's appointment is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
In light of Mr. Glasscock's retirement and Ms. Braly's appointment, the Board of Directors of the Company revised the Company's Board of Directors Compensation Program to eliminate additional compensation for the Chair of the Company's Board of Directors.
The text of the Company's Board of Directors Compensation Program is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.7.
Section 9 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 3, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
CASH COMPENSATIONRetainers
Annual Board Retainer:
 
Additional Annual Retainer for Committee Chairs:
 
 
CASH COMPENSATIONMeeting Fees
Board of Directors Meetings:
 
 
Committee Meetings:
 
 
 
 
STOCK COMPENSATION
Annual Full Value Share Grant:
Each Director will receive, subject to the deferral described below, an annual grant of the number of shares equal to five times the Annual Board Retainer on the date of the WellPoint, Inc. annual meeting of shareholders. The number of shares of the Annual Full Value Share Grant will be calculated using the following formula:
[Annual Board Retainer X 5] divided by [the closing price of the WellPoint, Inc. common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of the annual meeting of shareholders] = Number of shares of the Annual Full Value Share Grant.
Deferral of Full Value Share Grants:
The Initial Full Value Share Grant and each Annual Full Value Share Grant will be deferred for a minimum period of 5 years from the date of the Grant ("Deferral Period") in accordance with the terms of the Director Deferred Compensation Plan. Such Grants shall not be distributed to the Directors until the earlier of the expiration of the Deferral Period or the date on which a Director ceases to be a member of the Board of Directors.
Director Ownership Guidelines:
Each Director shall have the obligation to own at least $400,000 of WellPoint, Inc. common stock (including deferred shares and phantom stock, but not options) commencing on the later of May 3, 2007 or the fifth anniversary of the date such Director became a member of the Board of Directors.
Exhibit 10.7
 
MISCELLANEOUS
Annual Physical Exam:
WellPoint, Inc. will pay the cost of an annual physical examination for each Director.
Expenses:
WellPoint, Inc. will reimburse each Director for all travel, lodging and other expenses incurred in connection with the attendance at and/or participation in any and all Board of Directors Meetings and Committee Meetings and related matters in accordance with the WellPoint, Inc. Travel and Entertainment Policy.

Exhibit 99.1
Indianapolis, IN  February 3, 2010  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP), the largest U.S. health benefits company by commercial membership, today announced that Larry C. Glasscock is retiring as Chairman of the Board of Directors and as a member of the Board of Directors effective March 1, 2010. WellPoint's Board of Directors has named Angela F. Braly, WellPoint's President and Chief Executive Officer, as Chair of the Board, also effective March 1, 2010.
Speaking on behalf of WellPoint's Board, independent Lead Director William H.T. Bush said, "Larry has served WellPoint with great distinction through the years, and we are enormously thankful for his contributions to the company, both as Chairman and, before that, as CEO. When he told us of his intention to retire, the Board knew that Angela Braly was the best qualified candidate to succeed him, especially at this critical time in the company's history. Angela has done an outstanding job of leading WellPoint since she was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in 2007. She personifies WellPoint's core values in every way, and her dynamic leadership style engages and inspires confidence. Over the past two-and-a-half years, Angela has proven her strength and foresight through her leadership of WellPoint, which will be a valuable asset to the Board through the changes the industry will face in the next few years. The future of the company is in very capable hands."
Glasscock said, "It has been an honor and a privilege to serve this great company in various capacities over the past 11 years. This is an outstanding organization. No company is more committed to serving its members, providers and shareholders. At this point, my work here is accomplished and there is one individual most capable of leading WellPoint into the future: Angela Braly. Angela is a leader of outstanding talent, dedication and vision. I wish her, and all the men and women of WellPoint, the best of success."
Commenting on her appointment, Braly said, "The health care landscape in the United States is rapidly changing, and WellPoint is uniquely positioned to bring ever-greater value to our customers and to help lead our nation's health care system to a better place. It has been, and continues to be, my honor to lead WellPoint's outstanding team and I am excited and grateful to be given the opportunity to chair WellPoint's dedicated Board, continuing the Board's efforts to help make WellPoint the most trusted choice in health care and the leader in affordable, quality care. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to Larry Glasscock for his dedicated leadership under which the Company grew to the nation's largest health benefits company, and for the advice, guidance and support he has given me and the Board during his distinguished tenure."
Braly, 48, has served as WellPoint's President and Chief Executive Officer since 2007. From 2005 to 2007, Braly served as an Executive Vice President, with operational responsibility for the nation's largest Medicare claims processing business, the federal employees' health benefits business, public policy development, government relations, legal affairs, marketing, and social responsibility initiatives. Previously, she was the President and CEO of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Missouri.
Earlier in her career, Braly was Executive Vice President and General Counsel at Blue Cross Blue Shield of Missouri and a partner in the law firm of Lewis, Rice & Fingersh. A native of Dallas, she received a bachelor's degree in finance from Texas Tech University and a law degree from Southern Methodist University School of Law. Braly is active in several philanthropic organizations and is a member of the Board of Directors of The Procter and Gamble Company.
Glasscock, 61, has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of WellPoint since November 2005, and served as President and CEO of WellPoint, Inc., (formerly Anthem Inc.) from 1999 to 2007. He joined Anthem Insurance in 1998. Under his leadership, WellPoint and its predecessor companies grew from approximately 5 million medical members and $6 billion in revenue to approximately 34 million medical members and more than $60 billion in revenue today.
Contacts:
Media
Kristin Binns, 917-697-7802
Investor Relations
Michael Kleinman, 317-488-6713
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint, Inc. is the largest health benefits company in terms of medical membership in the United States. WellPoint is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and serves its members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as the Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as the Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), Wisconsin; and through UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
http://www.wellpoint.com/
 


