FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20101213162139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management.
 
By-Laws
On December 9, 2010, the Board of Directors of WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company") adopted amendments to the Company's By-Laws to, among other things:
(a) opt out of the Indiana Control Share Acquisitions Statute, I.C.  23-1-42, by amending sections 1.3 and 9.4 and deleting section 9.5;
(b) replace the supermajority voting requirements for shareholders to remove directors with a majority of shares outstanding voting standard, by amending section 1.13, and
(c) clarify how the Chair of the Board and the Lead Director are elected by the Directors, by adding new section 2.14.
The amendments took effect upon adoption by the Board of Directors.
The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Company's By-Laws, as amended, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and are incorporated herein by reference.
Articles of Incorporation
In addition, on December 9, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company approved amendments to the Company's Articles of Incorporation to replace all supermajority voting requirements with a majority of shares outstanding voting standard, by amending Section 6.6 and deleting Article VIII and Section 9.15. The Company's Articles of Incorporation currently require approval by a supermajority of shareholders for a variety of matters, including:
(a) certain business combinations,
(b) removal of directors, and
(c) amendment of provisions in the Articles of Incorporation related to
(i) restrictions on the ownership and transfer of stock,
(ii) voting rights of common stock, and
(iii) number of directors.
The amendments to the Articles of Incorporation require approval by the shareholders, which will be requested at the Company's 2011 Annual Shareholder Meeting.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibit is being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 13, 2010
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
. Annual meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held each year on such date, at such hour and at such place within or without the State of Indiana as shall be designated by the Board of Directors. In the absence of designation, the meeting shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 1.1
Annual Meetings
. Special meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors, the Chair of the Board, the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. The Board of Directors, the Chair of the Board, the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, as the case may be, calling a special meeting of shareholders shall set the date, time and place of such meeting, which may be held within or without the State of Indiana.
Section 1.2
Special Meetings
. A written notice, stating the date, time, and place of any meeting of the shareholders, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, shall be delivered, mailed or sent by electronic transmission by the Secretary of the Corporation, to each shareholder of record of the Corporation entitled to notice of or to vote at such meeting no fewer than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting. Notice of shareholders' meetings, if mailed, shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each shareholder at his or her address shown in the Corporation's current record of shareholders.
Section 1.3
Notices
Notice of a meeting of shareholders shall be given to shareholders not entitled to vote, but only if a purpose for the meeting is to vote on any amendment to the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, merger, or share exchange to which the Corporation would be a party, sale of the Corporation's assets, or dissolution of the Corporation. Except as required by the foregoing sentence or as otherwise required by the Indiana Business Corporation Law or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, notice of a meeting of shareholders is required to be given only to shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting.
A shareholder or his or her proxy may at any time waive notice of a meeting if the waiver is in writing and is delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the Corporation's records. A shareholder's attendance at a meeting, whether in person or by proxy, (a) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder or his proxy at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (b) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder or his proxy objects to considering the matter when it is presented. Each shareholder
who has, in the manner above provided, waived notice or objection to notice of a shareholders' meeting shall be conclusively presumed to have been given due notice of such meeting, including the purpose or purposes thereof.
If an annual or special shareholders' meeting is adjourned to a different date, time, or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time, or place if the new date, time, or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment, unless a new record date is or must be established for the adjourned meeting.
.
Section 1.4
Organization
(a) Meetings of shareholders shall be presided over by the Chair of the Board of Directors, if any, or in his or her absence by the Lead Director, or in his or her absence by the Chief Executive Officer, or in his or her absence by a person designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of a person so designated by the Board of Directors, by a chairman chosen at the meeting by the shareholders. The Secretary, or in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries, a person whom the chairman of the meeting shall appoint, shall act as Secretary of the meeting and keep a record of the proceedings thereof.
(b) The Board of Directors shall be entitled to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate or convenient. Subject to such rules and regulations of the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in the meeting to shareholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies and such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall permit, restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting and matters which are to be voted on by ballot.
. At each annual meeting, the shareholders shall elect the directors and shall conduct only such other business as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, all business, including nominations of candidates for and the election of Directors, must be (a) specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a shareholder of the Corporation who (i) was a shareholder of record at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Section 1.5 or in Section 1.6 of these By-Laws, as applicable, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.5 or in Section 1.6 of these By-Laws, as applicable.
Section 1.5
Business of Shareholder Meetings
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
For business other than nominations of candidates for and the election of Directors to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (c) of the preceding paragraph, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive office of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement (as defined herein) of the date of such meeting is first made.
Such shareholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and any Shareholder Associated Person (as defined below) covered by clause (b)(iii) below or on whose behalf the proposal is made; (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice and any Shareholder Associated Person covered by clause (b)(iii) below or on whose behalf the proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and the name and address of any Shareholder Associated Person, (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder and by any Shareholder Associated Person as of the date such notice is given, (iii) any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the shareholder and by any Shareholder Associated Person and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to or manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person with respect to the Corporation's securities, and (iv) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business; (c) in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend either the Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment; and (d) if the shareholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such shareholder's proposal, a representation to that effect.
Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary and not including nominations of candidates for and the election of Directors, which are governed by Section 1.6 of these By-Laws, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with this Section 1.5, and the Chair of the Board or other person presiding at an annual meeting of shareholders may refuse to permit any business to be brought before an annual meeting without compliance with the foregoing procedures or if the shareholder solicits proxies in support of such shareholder's proposal without such shareholder having made the representation required by clause (d) of the preceding paragraph of this Section 1.5. If a shareholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present his or her proposal at such annual meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
For the purposes of this Section 1.5, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). "Shareholder Associated Person" of any shareholder means (i) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such shareholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such shareholder and (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Shareholder Associated Person.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.5, a shareholder seeking to include a proposal in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for an annual meeting shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.5.
In no event shall the adjournment of a meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
. Nominations of persons for election as Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 1.6 and who is entitled to vote in the election of Directors. Any shareholder of record entitled to vote in the election of Directors at a meeting may nominate a person or persons for election as Directors only if timely written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination is given to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive office of the Corporation in accordance with the procedures for bringing nominations before an annual meeting set forth in this Section 1.6. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered (a) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of shareholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder, to be timely, must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement (as defined in Section 1.5 of these By-Laws) is first made of the date of such meeting, and (b) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of shareholders, not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees to be elected at such meeting.
Section 1.6
Notice of Shareholder Nominations
Such shareholder's notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the shareholder who intends to make the nomination as they appear on the Corporation's books, the person or persons to be nominated and the name and address of any Shareholder Associated Person (as defined in Section 1.5 of these By-Laws) covered by clause (c) below or on whose behalf the nomination is made; (b) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting in such election and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) (i) the class and
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder and by any Shareholder Associated Person as of the date such notice is given and (ii) any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the shareholder and by any Shareholder Associated Person and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to or manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of , such shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person as of the date such notice is given securities, (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between or among the shareholder, any Shareholder Associated Person, each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder; (e) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder as would have been required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors in an election contest (even if an election contest is not involved), or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder; (f) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director if so elected; and (g) if the shareholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The Corporation may require any person or persons to be nominated to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such person or persons to serve as a Director of the Corporation.
The chairman of any meeting of shareholders to elect Directors and the Board of Directors may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the shareholder solicits proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee(s) without such shareholder having made the representation required by clause (g) of the preceding paragraph. If a shareholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present his or her nomination at such meeting, the Corporation need not present such nomination for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such nomination may have been received by the Corporation.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 1.6 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for directors or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 1.6 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made of the date of such meeting.
. Except as otherwise provided by the Indiana Business Corporation Law or the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, each share of Common Stock of the Corporation that is outstanding at the record date established for any annual or special meeting of shareholders and is outstanding at the time of and represented in person or by proxy at the annual or special meeting, shall entitle the record holder thereof, or his proxy, to one (1) vote on each matter voted on at the meeting.
Section 1.7
Voting
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
. Unless the Indiana Business Corporation Law provides otherwise, at all meetings of shareholders, twenty-five percent (25%) of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for action on the matter. Action may be taken at a shareholders' meeting only on matters with respect to which a quorum exists; provided, however, that any meeting of shareholders, including annual and special meetings and any adjournments thereof, may be adjourned to a later date although less than a quorum is present. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting.
Section 1.8
Quorum
. If a quorum exists as to a matter to be considered at a meeting of shareholders, action on such matter (other than the election of Directors) is approved if the votes properly cast favoring the action exceed the votes properly cast opposing the action, except as the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or the Indiana Business Corporation Law require a greater number of affirmative votes. The standard for the election of Directors by the Corporation's shareholders is set forth in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation. Any nominee for Director who is an incumbent Director and who does not receive a majority of the votes cast (as defined in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation) shall immediately tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors, if not previously tendered in connection with his or her election. The Governance Committee will then make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept the tendered resignation or to take other action.
Section 1.9
Vote Required To Take Action
. Only such persons shall be entitled to notice of or to vote, in person or by proxy, at any shareholders' meeting as shall appear as shareholders upon the books of the Corporation as of such record date as the Board of Directors shall determine, which date may not be earlier than the date seventy (70) days immediately preceding the meeting. In the absence of such determination, the record date shall be the fiftieth (50th) day immediately preceding the date of such meeting. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, shareholders shall be determined as of the close of business on the record date.
Section 1.10
Record Date
. A shareholder may vote his or her shares either in person or by proxy. A shareholder may authorize a person or persons to act for the shareholder as proxy (including authorizing the person to receive, or to waive, notice of any shareholders' meeting within the effective period of such proxy) by executing a writing, transmitting or authorizing the transmission of an electronic submission or in any manner permitted by law. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes and is effective for eleven (11) months unless a longer period is expressly provided in the appointment. The proxy's authority may be limited to a particular meeting or may be general and authorize the proxy to represent the shareholder at any meeting of shareholders held within the time provided in the appointment. Subject to the Indiana Business Corporation Law and to any express limitation on the proxy's authority contained in the writing or electronic submission, the Corporation is entitled to accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the shareholder making the appointment.
Section 1.11
Proxies
. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of any share or shares of stock of the Corporation, as recorded on the stock record or
Section 1.12
Record Ownership
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
transfer books of the Corporation, as the holder of record and as the holder and owner in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be required to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share(s) on the part of any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or association, whether or not the Corporation shall have express or other notice thereof, save as is otherwise expressly required by law, and the term "shareholder" as used in these By-Laws means one who is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation.
. Any or all of the members of the Board of Directors may be removed only at a meeting of the shareholders or Directors called expressly for that purpose. Removal by the shareholders requires an affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares. Removal by the Board of Directors requires an affirmative vote of both (a) a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, and (b) a majority of the entire number of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation).
Section 1.13
Removal of Directors
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at a shareholders' meeting may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action, and delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records reflecting the action taken. Action taken under this Section 1.14 is effective when the last shareholder signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 1.14 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all shareholders and may be described as such in any document.
Section 1.14
Written Consents
. The Chair of the Board, the Lead Director or the Board of Directors may permit any or all shareholders to participate in an annual or special meeting of shareholders by, or through the use of, any means of communication, such as conference telephone, by which all shareholders participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A shareholder participating in a meeting by such means shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
Section 1.15
Participation Other Than in Person
. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of at least five (5) Directors, but not more than nineteen (19) Directors, with the actual number of Directors being fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Directors shall be divided into three (3) groups, with each group consisting of one-third (
Section 2.1
Number and Terms
 1
/
3
) of the total Directors, as near as may be, and at each annual meeting of shareholders, the Directors chosen to succeed those whose terms then expire shall be identified as being of the same group as the Directors they succeed and shall be elected for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting of shareholders.
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
Despite the expiration of a Director's term, the Director shall continue to serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until the earlier of his or her death, resignation, disqualification or removal, or until there is a decrease in the number of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, from whatever cause arising, shall be filled by selection of a successor by a majority vote of the remaining members (although less than a quorum) of the Board of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation); provided, however, that if such vacancy or vacancies leave the Board of Directors with no members who then qualify as Continuing Directors or if the remaining members of the Board who then qualify as Continuing Directors are unable to agree upon a successor or determine not to select a successor, such vacancy may be filled by a vote of the shareholders at a special meeting called for that purpose or at the next annual meeting of shareholders. The term of a Director elected or selected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the end of the term for which such Director's predecessor was elected, or if the vacancy arises because of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, at the end of the term specified at the time of election or selection.
Effective July 29, 2009, the number, groups and terms of directors shall not be governed by Indiana Code Section 23-1-33-6(c).
The Directors and each of them shall have no authority to bind the Corporation except when acting as a Board.
. A majority of the whole Board of Directors shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, except the filling of vacancies. If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the act of a greater number is required by the Indiana Business Corporation Law, the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
Section 2.2
Quorum and Vote Required To Take Action
. The Board of Directors shall meet annually, without notice, immediately following the annual meeting of the shareholders, for the purpose of transacting such business as properly may come before the meeting. Other regular meetings of the Board of Directors, in addition to said annual meeting, shall be held on such dates, at such times and at such places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and specified in a notice of each such regular meeting, or otherwise communicated to the Directors. The Board of Directors may at any time alter the date for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.3
Annual and Regular Meetings
. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chair of the Board, the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer or by one quarter (
Section 2.4
Special Meetings; Waivers
 1
/
4
) of the whole authorized number of Directors, upon not less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice given to each Director of the date, time, and place of the meeting, which notice need not specify the purpose or purposes of the special meeting. Such notice may be communicated in person (either in writing or orally), by telephone, telegraph, teletype, electronic transmission or a form of wire or wireless communication, or by mail, and shall be effective at the earlier of the time of its receipt or, if mailed, three (3) days after its mailing. Notice of any meeting of the Board may be waived in writing at any time if the waiver is signed
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
by the Director entitled to the notice and is filed with the minutes or corporate records. A Director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to the Director of the meeting, unless the Director at the beginning of the meeting (or promptly upon the Director's arrival) objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by each Director, and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken. Action taken under this Section 2.5 is effective when the last Director signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 2.5 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all members of the Board and may be described as such in any document.
Section 2.5
Written Consents
. The Board of Directors may permit any or all Directors to participate in a regular or special meeting by, or through the use of, any means of communication, such as conference telephone, by which all Directors participating may simultaneously, hear each other during the meeting. A Director participating in a meeting by such means shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
Section 2.6
Participation Other Than in Person
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to an Executive Committee. The duties of the Executive Committee shall, subject to the restrictions of Section 2.13 hereof, be to exercise the authority of the full Board of Directors at any times other than during regular or special meetings of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.7
Executive Committee
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Compensation Committee. The duties of the Compensation Committee shall include assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the establishment of the compensation philosophy and the setting of the compensation of the Corporation's officers.
Section 2.8
Compensation Committee
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to an Audit Committee. The duties of the Audit Committee shall include representing and assisting the Board in overseeing (a) the Corporation's accounting and financial reporting practices and policies and internal control over financial reporting, (b) the integrity of the Corporation's financial statements and the independent audit thereof, (c) the Corporation's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, (d) the performance of the Corporation's internal audit and compliance function and independent auditors, (e) the independent auditors' qualifications and independence, and (f) the Board's process for overseeing the Company's exposure to major risks.
Section 2.9
Audit Committee
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Planning Committee. The duties of the Planning Committee shall include
Section 2.10
Planning Committee
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to strategic and operational planning and performance.
. The Board of Directors may appoint three (3) or more members to a Governance Committee. The duties of the Governance Committee shall include assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to Board composition, corporate governance and the setting of the compensation of the non-employee members of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.11
Governance Committee
. The Board of Directors may create one (1) or more committees in addition to any Executive Committee, Compensation Committee, Audit Committee, Planning Committee or Governance Committee and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them, by resolution of the Board of Directors adopted by a majority of all the Directors in office when the resolution is adopted. The committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors to the extent specified in the resolution. Each committee may have one (1) or more members, and all the members of such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.12
Other Committees
.
Section 2.13
Limitations on Committees; Notice, Quorum and Voting
(a) Neither the Executive Committee, Compensation Committee, Audit Committee, Planning Committee, Governance Committee nor any other committee hereafter established may:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
(b) Except to the extent inconsistent with the resolutions creating a committee, Sections 2.1 through 2.6 of these By-Laws, which govern meetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, quorum and voting requirements and participation in meetings of the Board of Directors other than in person, apply to each committee and its members as well.
Chair of the Board and Lead Director.
Section 2.14
(a) Chair of the Board. The Chair of the Board shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors. The Chair of the Board shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall be a member of the Board of Directors.
(b) Lead Director. The Lead Director, if any, shall, if present, preside at the meetings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors in the absence of the Chair of the Board. The Lead Director, if any, shall be an independent Director and shall be elected annually by a vote of the independent Directors.
. The officers of the Corporation shall consist of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, and the Secretary. The Board of Directors may also elect Executive Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Controller, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers or assistant officers as it may from time to time determine by resolution creating the office and defining the duties thereof. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, by a certificate of appointment creating the office and defining the duties and term thereof delivered to the Secretary for inclusion with the corporate records, from time to time create and appoint such assistant officers as they deem desirable. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors (or appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President as provided above) and need not be selected from among the members of the Board of Directors, except for the Chief Executive Officer who shall be a member of the Board of Directors. Any two (2) or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with respect to officers appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President, also at the pleasure of such officers. The election or appointment of an officer does not itself create contract rights.
Section 3.1
Designation, Selection and Terms
. The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time with or without cause. An officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President may also be removed at any time, with or without cause, by any of such officers. Vacancies in such offices, however occurring, may be filled by the Board of Directors at any meeting of the Board of Directors (or by appointment by the Chief Executive Officer or the President, to the extent provided in Section 3.1 of these By-Laws).
Section 3.2
Removal; Vacancies
. The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive and principal policymaking officer of the Corporation. Subject to the authority of
Section 3.3
Chief Executive Officer
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
the Board of Directors, he or she shall formulate the major policies to be pursued in the administration of the Corporation's affairs. He or she shall study and make reports and recommendations to the Board of Directors with respect to major activities of the Corporation and shall see that the established policies are placed into effect and carried out. In the absence of the Chair of the Board and the Lead Director, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors.
. Subject to the provisions of Sections 3.3 , the President shall exercise the powers and perform the duties which ordinarily appertain to such office and shall manage and operate the business and affairs of the Corporation in conformity with the policies established by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, or as may be provided for in these By-Laws. In connection with the performance of his or her duties, he or she shall keep the Chair of the Board, the Lead Director and the Chief Executive Officer fully informed as to all phases of the Corporation's activities. In the absence of the Chair of the Board, the Lead Director and the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall preside at meetings of the shareholders and, if a Director, at meetings of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.4
President
. The Chief Financial Officer shall be the chief financial officer of the Corporation and shall perform all of the duties customary to that office. He or she shall be responsible for all of the Corporation's financial affairs, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Executive Officer, and shall have and perform such further powers and duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.5
Chief Financial Officer
. Each Executive Vice President, if any, shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer or the President may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.6
Executive Vice President
. The Chief Accounting Officer shall perform all of the duties customary to that office, shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall be responsible for maintaining the Corporation's accounting books and records and preparing its financial statements, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Financial Officer and other superior officers within the Corporation. He or she shall also be responsible for causing the Corporation to furnish financial statements to its shareholders pursuant to Ind. Code 23-1-53-1.
Section 3.7
Chief Accounting Officer
. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the books, papers, and records of the Corporation and of its corporate seal, if any, and shall be responsible for seeing that the Corporation maintains the records required by Ind. Code 23-1-52-1 (other than accounting records) and that the Corporation files with the Indiana Secretary of State the biennial report required by Ind. Code 23-1-53-3. The Secretary shall be responsible for preparing minutes of the meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and for authenticating records of the Corporation, and he or she shall perform all of the other duties usual in the office of Secretary of a corporation.
Section 3.8
Secretary
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
. Each Vice President, if any, shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, prescribe and as the Chief Executive Officer, the President or other superior officers within the Corporation may, from time to time, delegate to him or her.
Section 3.9
Vice Presidents
. The Treasurer, if any, shall be responsible for the treasury functions of the Corporation, subject to the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer.
Section 3.10
Treasurer
. The Controller, if any, shall perform all of the duties customary to that office, subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Financial Officer or other superior officers within the Corporation.
Section 3.11
Controller
. The Compensation Committee may, at its discretion, from time to time, fix the salary of any executive officer.
Section 3.12
Salary
All checks, drafts, or other orders for payment of money shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by such officers or persons as shall be designated from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and included in the minute book of the Corporation; and in the absence of such designation, such checks, drafts, or other orders for payment shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer.
Such of the officers of the Corporation as shall be designated from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and included in the minute book of the Corporation, and in the absence of such designation and subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors may fix, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and the Chief Financial Officer, shall have the power, with such limitations thereon as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, to borrow money in the Corporation's behalf, to establish credit, to discount bills and papers, to pledge collateral, and to execute such notes, bonds, debentures, or other evidences of indebtedness, and such mortgages, trust indentures, and other instruments in connection therewith, as may be authorized from time to time by such Board of Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer, the President or any other officer authorized by the Board of Directors may, in the Corporation's name, acting singly, sign all deeds, leases, contracts, or similar documents unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors or otherwise provided
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
herein or in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, or as otherwise required by law. Only one signature is required, unless otherwise provided by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
. The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until each certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Certificates for shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and the seal of the Corporation (or a facsimile thereof), if any, may be thereto affixed. Where any such certificate is also signed by a transfer agent or a registrar, or both, the signatures of the officers of the Corporation may be facsimiles. The Corporation may issue and deliver any such certificate notwithstanding that any such officer who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature shall have been imprinted on, such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer.
Section 7.1
Certificates of Stock; Uncertificated Shares; Execution
. Each certificate issued after the adoption of these By-Laws shall state on its face the name of the Corporation and that it is organized under the laws of the State of Indiana, the name of the person to whom it is issued, and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, the certificate represents, and shall state conspicuously on its front or back that the Corporation will furnish the shareholder, upon his written request and without charge, a summary of the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations applicable to each class and the variations in rights, preferences, and limitations determined for each series (and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series).
Section 7.2
Contents
. Except as otherwise provided by law or by resolution of the Board of Directors, transfers of shares of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof, in person or by duly authorized attorney, on payment of all taxes thereon and surrender for cancellation of the certificate or certificates for such shares (except as hereinafter provided in the case of loss, destruction, or mutilation of certificates) properly endorsed by the holder thereof or accompanied by the proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer, and delivered to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
Section 7.3
Transfers
. There shall be entered upon the stock records of the Corporation the number of each certificate issued, the name and address of the registered holder of such certificate, the number, kind, and class of shares represented by such certificate, the date of issue, whether the shares are originally issued or transferred, the registered holder from whom transferred, and such other information as is commonly required to be shown by such records. The stock records of the Corporation shall be kept at its principal office, unless the Corporation appoints a transfer agent or registrar, in which case the Corporation shall keep at its principal office a complete and accurate shareholders' list giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each, which shall be updated periodically as determined by the Secretary, but not less frequently than quarterly, and which
Section 7.4
Stock Transfer Records
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
shall be updated as of each record date established with respect to a meeting of shareholders or other shareholder action. If a transfer agent is appointed by the Corporation, shareholders shall give written notice of any changes in their addresses from time to time to the transfer agent.
. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars and may require each stock certificate to bear the signature of either or both.
Section 7.5
Transfer Agents and Registrars
. The holder of any shares of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction, or mutilation of the certificate therefor, and the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, cause to be issued to him a new certificate or certificates, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate, or, in the case of loss or destruction, upon satisfactory proof of such loss or destruction. The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, require the holder of the lost or destroyed certificate or his legal representative to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and in such form, and with such surety or sureties as it may direct, to indemnify the Corporation, its transfer agents, and registrars, if any, against any claim that may be made against them or any of them with respect to the shares represented by the certificate or certificates alleged to have been lost or destroyed, but the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, refuse to issue a new certificate or certificates, save upon the order of a court having jurisdiction in such matters.
Section 7.6
Loss, Destruction, or Mutilation of Certificates
. The form of the certificates for shares of the Corporation shall conform to the requirements of Section 7.2 of these By-Laws and be in such printed form as shall from time to time be approved by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 7.7
Form of Certificates
The corporate seal of the Corporation shall, if the Corporation elects to have one, be in the form of a disc, with the name of the Corporation and "INDIANA" on the periphery thereof and the word "SEAL" in the center.
. The provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation law, as amended, applicable to all matters relevant to, but not specifically covered by, these By-Laws are hereby, by reference, incorporated in and made a part of these By-Laws.
Section 9.1
Indiana Business Corporation Law
. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on December 31 of each year.
Section 9.2
Fiscal Year
. Effective upon the registration of any class of the Corporation's shares under Section 12 of the Securities
Section 9.3
Election to be governed by Indiana Code  23-1-43
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Corporation shall be governed by the provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-43 regarding business combinations.
. The provisions of Ind. Code 23-1-42 shall not apply to the acquisition of shares of the Corporation.
Section 9.4
Control Share Acquisition Statute
. These By-Laws may be rescinded, changed, or amended, and provisions hereof may be waived, at any meeting of the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, except as otherwise required by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation or by the Indiana Business Corporation Law.
Section 9.5
Amendments
. The term "Articles of Incorporation" as used in these By-Laws means the articles of incorporation of the Corporation as from time to time are in effect.
Section 9.6
Definition of Articles of Incorporation
. From November 30, 2004 (the "Effective Time") and at least until the date that is five years following the Effective Time, the headquarters and principal executive offices of the Corporation shall be located in Indianapolis, Indiana, unless the Corporation's Board of Directors decides otherwise by an affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 10.1
Location of Headquarters
. The provisions of this Article X shall not be rescinded, changed or amended, nor may the provisions of this Article X be waived, except by the affirmative vote of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Directors at the time.
Section 10.2
Effect of the Provisions in this Article X
 
WellPoint, Inc. ByLaws
(As amended December 9, 2010)


