FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20111026061758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
 
On October 26, 2011, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 26, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Oct. 26, 2011  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that third quarter 2011 net income was $683.2 million, or $1.90 per share, including net investment gains of $46.8 million after-tax, or $0.13 per share. Net income in the third quarter of 2010 was $739.1 million, or $1.84 per share, including net investment gains of $37.9 million after-tax, or approximately $0.10 per share.
Indianapolis, Ind.
Excluding the net investment gains in each period, adjusted net income was $1.77 per share in the third quarter of 2011, an increase of 1.7 percent compared with adjusted net income of $1.74 per share in the prior-year quarter (refer to page 14 for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or "GAAP").
"We added 169,000 medical members during the third quarter and have now grown by more than one million members on a year-to-date basis, while reducing selling, general and administrative expenses by $185 million, or nearly 3 percent. Our ability to add new customers while controlling costs demonstrates our execution and emphasis on creating a more affordable operating model for our customers," said Angela F. Braly, chair, president and chief executive officer. "We are also investing strategically in innovative services and capabilities designed to enhance future growth and improve health care costs and quality for our members. We expect that our focus on creating the best health care value in the industry will continue to drive success in 2012 and beyond."
"Our higher than anticipated third quarter membership and earnings results were supported by a slight increase in days in claims payable and adjusted operating cash flow of 1.2 times our net income. Based on these results, we are raising our full year 2011 adjusted earnings per share guidance, and we anticipate that we can grow from this increased base in 2012," said Wayne S. DeVeydt, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Also during the third quarter, we acquired CareMore Health Group and continued to execute on our share repurchase and dividend programs."
 
 
Medical enrollment totaled approximately 34.4 million members at September 30, 2011, an increase of 882,000 members, or 2.6 percent, from 33.5 million at September 30, 2010. The increase was driven by growth of 522,000 members, or 4.4 percent, in the National business. Enrollment in the Senior business increased by 186,000 members, or 14.8 percent, including 57,000 members from the acquisition of CareMore Health Group ("CareMore") in the third quarter of 2011. The Company also grew organically in its Local Group, State Sponsored and Federal Employee Program ("FEP") businesses by 125,000, 97,000 and 64,000 members, respectively, while Individual membership declined by 112,000.
Membership:
As of September 30, 2011, approximately 60 percent of the Company's medical enrollment was self-funded and 40 percent was fully insured, compared with 59 percent and 41 percent, respectively, as of September 30, 2010.
On a sequential basis, medical enrollment increased by 169,000 members in the third quarter of 2011. This was driven by growth of 99,000 members in the Local Group business and an increase of 89,000 members in Senior, including the 57,000 members from the CareMore acquisition. These increases were partially offset by modest in-group attrition in the National business.
Operating revenue totaled approximately $15.2 billion in the third quarter of 2011, an increase of $846.6 million, or 5.9 percent, from $14.3 billion in the third quarter of 2010. This increase was driven by premium increases designed to cover overall cost trends and membership growth in the Senior and FEP businesses, partially offset by a decline in fully insured Commercial membership.
Operating Revenue:
The benefit expense ratio was 85.1 percent in the third quarter of 2011, an increase of 130 basis points from 83.8 percent in the third quarter of 2010. This was driven by changes in prior period reserve development, as the Company recognized an estimated $110 million of higher than anticipated favorable prior year reserve development during the third quarter of 2010. The benefit expense ratio also increased due to business mix changes, including growth in Senior membership, and adverse selection in certain Medicare Advantage products.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
Medical Cost Trends:
Trends represent Local Group fully insured business.
For the full year of 2011, the Company now expects that underlying medical cost trend will be in the range of 7.0 percent, plus or minus 50 basis points. Unit cost increases, including an increase in the acuity of services, continue to be the primary driver of overall medical cost trend.
Days in Claims Payable ("DCP") as of September 30, 2011, was 41.6 days, an increase of 0.8 days from 40.8 days at June 30, 2011. The increase was almost entirely related to the CareMore acquisition, which closed on August 22, 2011. The Company recognized only 39 days of benefit expense for CareMore, while medical claims reserves established at September 30, 2011, fully reflected the CareMore membership. Excluding the impact of CareMore, DCP was 41.0 days at September 30, 2011, an increase of 0.2 days from June 30, 2011.
Days in Claims Payable:
 
The SG&A expense ratio was 14.0 percent in the third quarter of 2011, a decrease of 40 basis points from 14.4 percent in the third quarter of 2010. This reflected operating revenue growth of 5.9 percent, partially offset by an increase of $56.4 million, or 2.7 percent in SG&A expense. The increase in SG&A expense was driven primarily by expenses designed to enhance the Company's low cost operating model and the acquisition of CareMore.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
Operating cash flow in the third quarter of 2011 was $1.4 billion, or 2.1 times net income, and included receipt of the October 2011 monthly payment from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS"), which totaled $596.5 million. Excluding this payment, adjusted operating cash flow was $833.3 million, or 1.2 times net income, in the third quarter of 2011, and $2.7 billion, or 1.2 times net income, for the nine months ended September 30, 2011.
Operating Cash Flow:
For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, operating cash flow totaled $829.7 million and included $1.2 billion of tax payments related to the 2009 sale of the NextRx pharmacy benefit management subsidiaries. Excluding the NextRx tax payments, adjusted operating cash flow was $2.0 billion for year-to-date period of 2010 (refer to page 15 for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP).
During the third quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased 13.4 million shares of its common stock for $897.9 million. For the first nine months of 2011, the Company repurchased 34.2 million shares of common stock, or 9.0 percent of the shares outstanding at December 31, 2010, for approximately $2.4 billion. As of September 30, 2011, the Company's remaining Board-approved share repurchase authorization totaled approximately $5.0 billion.
Share Repurchase Program:
During the third quarter of 2011, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share, representing a distribution of cash totaling $88.2 million. On October 25, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend to shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $0.25 per share. The fourth quarter dividend is payable on December 23, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 9, 2011.
Cash Dividend:
During the third quarter of 2011, the Company recorded net investment gains of $72.0 million pre-tax, consisting of net realized gains from the sale of securities totaling $94.9 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments totaling $22.9 million. In the third quarter of 2010, the Company recorded net investment gains of $58.4 million pre-tax, consisting of net realized gains from the sale of securities totaling $61.6 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments totaling $3.2 million.
Investment Portfolio & Capital Position:
As of September 30, 2011, the Company's net unrealized gain position in the investment portfolio was $748.9 million, consisting of net unrealized gains on fixed maturity and equity securities totaling $573.5 million and $175.4 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2011, cash and investments at the parent company totaled approximately $2.4 billion.
 
WellPoint, Inc. has the following reportable segments: Commercial Business, which includes the Local Group, National, UniCare and Specialty Products lines of business; Consumer Business, which includes the Individual, Senior and State Sponsored lines of business; and Other, which includes Comprehensive Health Solutions, FEP business, National Government Services, inter-segment sales and expense eliminations, and corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.
Operating revenue and operating gain are the key measures used by management to evaluate performance in each segment.
 
Operating gain for the Commercial Business segment was $711.5 million in the third quarter of 2011, a decrease of $49.4 million, or 6.5 percent, from $760.9 million in the third quarter of 2010. The decline in operating gain was driven by lower prior period reserve development in the third quarter of 2011, which offset the impact of lower than anticipated underlying medical cost trend. An estimated $75 million of higher than anticipated favorable prior year reserve development was recognized in the Commercial segment during the third quarter of 2010.
Commercial Business:
Operating gain for the Consumer Business segment was $245.2 million in the third quarter of 2011, a decline of $16.5 million, or 6.3 percent, compared with $261.7 million in the prior year quarter. The decline was driven by changes in prior period reserve development and higher medical costs in the Senior business. An estimated $35 million of higher than anticipated favorable prior year reserve development was recognized in the Consumer segment during the third quarter of 2010. These declines in operating gain were substantially offset by improved results in the California Individual business and higher risk score revenue for Senior business during the third quarter of 2011.
Consumer Business:
 
 
Full Year 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time ("EDT") to discuss its third quarter earnings results and updated outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 186084. The replay will be available from 11 a.m. EDT today until the end of the day on November 9, 2011. The call will also be available through a live webcast at . A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
Contacts:
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
WellPoint works to simplify the connection between Health, Care and Value. We help to improve the health of our members and our communities, and provide greater value to our customers and shareholders. WellPoint is one of the nation's largest health benefits companies, with 34 million members in its affiliated health plans, and a total of more than 66 million individuals served through its subsidiaries. As an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, WellPoint serves members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as the Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as the Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, WellPoint's plans do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, or Empire Blue Cross (in the New York service areas). WellPoint also serves customers throughout the country as UniCare. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has referenced "Adjusted Net Income" and "Adjusted Net Income Per Share," non-GAAP financial measures, in this document. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be alternatives to any measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Rather, these non-GAAP financial measures are intended to aid investors when comparing WellPoint, Inc.'s financial results among periods. A reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is presented below.
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has referenced "Adjusted Operating Cash Flow" a non-GAAP measure, in this document. This non-GAAP measure is not intended to be an alternative to any measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Rather, this non-GAAP measure is intended to aid investors when comparing WellPoint, Inc.'s financial results among periods. A reconciliation of this measure to the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP is presented below.
 
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has reclassified certain costs related to its BlueCard program among line items in its 2010 income statement, in order to be comparable with the 2011 financial statement presentation. While this reclassification impacted previously reported administrative fee revenue, benefit expense and SG&A expense, there was no impact on reported net income. The schedule below is provided for reference purposes.
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has reclassified certain costs related to its BlueCard program among line items in its 2010 income statement, in order to be comparable with the 2011 financial statement presentation. While this reclassification impacted previously reported administrative fee revenue, benefit expense and SG&A expense, there was no impact on reported net income. The schedule below is provided for reference purposes.
 
 
WellPoint and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"), including statements in this press release, in presentations, in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. The projections referenced in this press release are forward-looking and they are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by PSLRA. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)", "intend", "estimate", "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in our public filings with the SEC; increased government participation in, or regulation or taxation of health benefits and managed care operations, including, but not limited to, the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rates including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practice; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; reduced enrollment, as well as a negative change in our health care product mix; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon and funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation therein; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to health care services provided by our subsidiaries; our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock due to the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other considerations; non-compliance by any party with the Express Scripts, Inc. pharmacy benefit management services agreement, which could result in financial penalties, our inability to meet customer demands, and sanctions imposed by government entities, including CMS; events that result in negative publicity for us or the health benefits industry; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems and e-business organization and to maintain good relationships with third party vendors for information system resources; events that may negatively affect our license with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; intense competition to attract and retain employees; unauthorized disclosure of member sensitive or confidential information; changes in the economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our investment portfolios and liquidity; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital and the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; general risks associated with mergers and acquisitions; various laws and our governing documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations; future public health epidemics and catastrophes; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities law, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in our SEC reports.
 


