FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20110520163044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On May 17, 2011, the shareholders of the Company approved proposals to amend the Company's Articles of Incorporation (the "Articles") as disclosed in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 1, 2011 and as detailed below under Item 5.07. The amendments to the Articles of Incorporation were effective on May 17, 2011 by filing Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation with the Indiana Secretary of State. A restatement of the Articles of Incorporation, which includes the amendments referred to above, is filed as Exhibit 3.1 with this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 17, 2011. The following is a summary of the matters voted on at the meeting as described in detail in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement filed on April 1, 2011, and the voting results for each matter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors has considered the vote of the Company's shareholders as to the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation and intends to hold an annual advisory vote on executive compensation until the next advisory vote on frequency.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 20, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The undersigned incorporator, desiring to form a corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation"), pursuant to the provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation Law"), executes the following Articles of Incorporation:
The name of the Corporation is WellPoint, Inc.
. . The purpose for which the Corporation is formed is to engage in the transaction of any or all lawful business for which corporations may now or hereafter be incorporated under the Corporation Law.
Section 2.1
Purposes of the Corporation
. . The Corporation shall have (a) all powers now or hereafter authorized by or vested in corporations pursuant to the provisions of the Corporation Law, (b) all powers now or hereafter vested in corporations by common law or any other statute or act, and (c) all powers authorized by or vested in the Corporation by the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation or by the provisions of its By-Laws as from time to time in effect.
Section 2.2
Powers of the Corporation
The period during which the Corporation shall continue is perpetual.
The street address of the Corporation's registered office at the time of adoption of these Articles of Incorporation is 120 Monument Circle, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and the name of its Resident Agent at such office at the time of adoption of these Articles of Incorporation is John Cannon.
. . The total number of shares which the Corporation has authority to issue shall be one billion (1,000,000,000) shares, consisting of nine hundred million (900,000,000) shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), and one hundred million (100,000,000) shares of preferred stock, without par value (the "Preferred Stock").
Section 5.1
Authorized Classes and Number of Shares
. . The Corporation shall have the power to acquire (by purchase, redemption, or otherwise), hold, own, pledge, sell, transfer, assign, reissue, cancel, or otherwise dispose of the shares of the Corporation in the manner and to the extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of Indiana (but such power shall not imply an obligation on the part of the owner or holder of any share to sell or otherwise transfer such share to the Corporation), including the power to purchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire the Corporation's own shares, directly or indirectly, and without pro rata treatment of the owners or holders of any class or series of shares, unless, after giving effect thereto, the Corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or the Corporation's total assets would be less than its total liabilities (calculated without regard to any amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the purchase, redemption, or other acquisition, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those of the holders of the shares of the Corporation being purchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired, unless otherwise expressly provided with respect to a series of Preferred Stock in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of such series). Shares of the Corporation purchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired by it shall constitute authorized but unissued shares, unless prior to any such purchase, redemption, or other acquisition, or within thirty (30) days thereafter, the Board of Directors adopts a resolution providing that such shares constitute authorized and issued but not outstanding shares.
Section 5.2
General Terms of All Shares
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may dispose of, issue, and sell shares in accordance with, and in such amounts as may be permitted by, the laws of the State of Indiana and the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation and for such consideration, at such price or prices, at such time or times and upon such terms and conditions (including the privilege of selectively repurchasing the same) as the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall determine, without the authorization or approval by any shareholders of the Corporation. Shares may be disposed of, issued, and sold to such persons, firms, or corporations as the Board of Directors may determine, without any preemptive right on the part of the owners or holders of other shares of the Corporation of any class or kind to acquire such shares by reason of their ownership of such other shares.
When the Corporation receives the consideration specified in a subscription agreement entered into before incorporation, or for which the Board of Directors authorized the issuance of shares, as the case may be, the shares issued therefor shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
 
The Corporation shall have the power to declare and pay dividends or other distributions upon the issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation, subject to the limitation that a dividend or other distribution may not be made if, after giving it effect, the Corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or the Corporation's total assets would be less than its total liabilities (calculated without regard to any amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the dividend or other distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those of the holders of shares receiving the dividend or other distribution, unless otherwise expressly provided with respect to a series of Preferred Stock in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of such series). Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.4, the Corporation shall have the power to issue shares of one class or series as a share dividend or other distribution in respect of that class or series or one or more other classes or series.
. .
Section 5.3
Voting Rights of Shares
(a) . Except as otherwise provided by the Corporation Law and subject to such shareholder disclosure and recognition procedures (which may include voting prohibition sanctions) as the Corporation may by action of its Board of Directors establish, shares of Common Stock have unlimited voting rights. Shares of Common Stock shall, when validly issued by the Corporation, entitle the record holder thereof to one (1) vote per share on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation. Shares of Common Stock shall not have cumulative voting rights.
Common Stock
(b) . Except as required by the Corporation Law or by the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of the Preferred Stock or a series thereof, the holders of Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights or powers. Shares of Preferred Stock shall, when validly issued by the Corporation, entitle the record holder thereof to vote as and on such matters, but only as and on such matters, as the holders thereof are entitled to vote under the Corporation Law or under the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of the Preferred Stock or a series thereof (which provisions may provide for special, conditional, limited, or unlimited voting rights, including multiple or fractional votes per share, or for no right to vote, except to the extent required by the Corporation Law) and subject to such shareholder disclosure and recognition procedures (which may include voting prohibition sanctions) as the Corporation may by action of the Board of Directors establish.
Preferred Stock
. .
Section 5.4
Other Terms of Common Stock
(a) Shares of Common Stock shall be equal in every respect insofar as their relationship to the Corporation is concerned, but such equality of rights shall not imply equality of treatment as to redemption or other acquisition of shares by the Corporation.
(b) Subject to the rights of the holders of any outstanding Preferred Stock issued under Section 5.5 hereof, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to share ratably in such dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions, or other acquisitions of shares by the Corporation), if any, as are declared and paid from time to time at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
 
(c) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, after payment shall have been made to the holders of the Preferred Stock of the full amount to which they shall be entitled under this Article V, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any and all series, to share, ratably according to the number of shares of Common Stock held by them, in all remaining assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders.
. .
Section 5.5
Other Terms of Preferred Stock
(a) Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have such distinctive designation and such preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights as shall be set forth in these Articles of Incorporation. Subject to the requirements of the Corporation Law and subject to all other provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors of the Corporation may create one or more series of Preferred Stock and may determine the preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights of one or more series of Preferred Stock before the issuance of any shares of that series by the adoption of an amendment to these Articles of Incorporation that specifies the terms of the series of Preferred Stock. All shares of a series of Preferred Stock must have preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights identical with those of other shares of the same series and, if the description of the series set forth in these Articles of Incorporation so provides, no series of Preferred Stock need have preferences, limitations, or relative voting or other rights identical with those of any other series of Preferred Stock.
Before issuing any shares of a series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors shall adopt an amendment to these Articles of Incorporation, which shall be effective without any shareholder approval or other action, that sets forth the preferences, limitations, and relative voting and other rights of the series, and authority is hereby expressly vested in the Board of Directors, by such amendment:
(1) To fix the distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares which shall constitute such series, which number may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by action of the Board of Directors;
(2) To fix the voting rights of such series, which may consist of special, conditional, limited, or unlimited voting rights, including multiple or fractional votes per share, or no right to vote (except to the extent required by the Corporation Law);
(3) To fix the dividend or distribution rights of such series and the manner of calculating the amount and time for payment of dividends or distributions, including, but not limited to:
(A) the dividend rate, if any, of such series;
 
(B) any limitations, restrictions, or conditions on the payment of dividends or other distributions, including whether dividends or other distributions shall be noncumulative or cumulative or partially cumulative and, if so, from which date or dates;
(C) the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of dividends or other distributions on shares of that series in relation to Common Stock and shares of any other series of Preferred Stock; and
(D) the form of dividends or other distributions, which may be payable at the option of the Corporation, the shareholder, or another person (and in such case to prescribe the terms and conditions of exercising such option), or upon the occurrence of a designated event in cash, indebtedness, stock or other securities or other property, or in any combination thereof,
and to make provisions, in the case of dividends or other distributions payable in stock or other securities, for adjustment of the dividend or distribution rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine;
(4) To fix the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions on which, the shares of such series may be redeemed or converted, which may be
(A) at the option of the Corporation, the shareholder, or another person or upon the occurrence of a designated event;
(B) for cash, indebtedness, securities, or other property or any combination thereof; and
(C) in a designated amount or in an amount determined in accordance with a designated formula or by reference to extrinsic data or events;
(5) To fix the amount or amounts payable upon the shares of such series in the event of any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment upon shares of such series in relation to Common Stock and shares of any other series of Preferred Stock; and to determine whether or not any such preferential rights upon dissolution need be considered in determining whether or not the Corporation may make dividends, repurchases, or other distributions;
(6) To determine whether or not the shares of such series shall be entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such series and, if so entitled, the amount of such fund and the manner of its application;
(7) To determine whether or not the issue of any additional shares of such series or of any other series in addition to such series shall be subject to restrictions in addition to restrictions, if any, on the issue of additional shares imposed in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation fixing the terms of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock theretofore issued pursuant to this Section 5.5 and, if subject to additional restrictions, the extent of such additional restrictions; and
 
(8) Generally to fix the other preferences or rights, and any qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of such preferences or rights, of such series to the full extent permitted by the Corporation Law; provided, however, that no such preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations, or restrictions shall be in conflict with these Articles of Incorporation or any amendment hereof.
(b) Shares of Preferred Stock of any series that have been redeemed (whether through the operation of a sinking fund or otherwise) or purchased by the Corporation, or which, if convertible, have been converted into shares of the Corporation of any other class or series, may be reissued as a part of such series or of any other series of Preferred Stock, subject to such limitations (if any) as may be fixed by the Board of Directors with respect to such series of Preferred Stock in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 5.5.
. . The number of Directors of the Corporation shall not be less than five (5) nor more than nineteen (19), the exact number to be specified from time to time in the manner set forth in the By-Laws. The By-Laws shall provide for staggering the terms of the members of the Board of Directors by dividing the total number of Directors into three (3) groups (with each group containing one-third (1/3) of the total, as near as may be) whose terms of office expire at different times.
Section 6.1
Number
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 6.1, any amendment to the By-Laws or any resolution of the Board of Directors that would effect:
(a) any increase in the number of Directors over such number as then in effect,
(b) any reduction in the number of Directors below such number as then in effect, or
(c) any elimination or modification of the groups or terms of office of the Directors as the By-Laws then in effect may provide,
shall also be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors of the Corporation who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII hereof).
. . Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation or residents of this or any other state in the United States.
Section 6.2
Qualifications
. . Vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided in the By-Laws or, if the By-Laws do not provide for the filling of
Section 6.3
Vacancies
 
vacancies, in the manner provided by the Corporation Law. The By-Laws may also provide that in certain circumstances specified therein, vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by vote of the shareholders at a special meeting called for that purpose or at the next annual meeting of shareholders.
. . A Director's responsibility to the Corporation shall be limited to discharging his or her duties as a Director, including his or her duties as a member of any committee of the Board of Directors upon which he or she may serve, in good faith, with the care an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would exercise under similar circumstances, and in a manner the Director reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the Corporation, all based on the facts then known to the Director.
Section 6.4
Liability of Directors
In discharging his or her duties, a Director is entitled to rely on information, opinions, reports, or statements, including financial statements and other financial data, if prepared or presented by:
(a) One (1) or more officers or employees of the Corporation whom the Director reasonably believes to be reliable and competent in the matters presented;
(b) Legal counsel, public accountants, or other persons as to matters the Director reasonably believes are within such person's professional or expert competence; or
(c) A committee of the Board of which the Director is not a member if the Director reasonably believes the Committee merits confidence;
but a Director is not acting in good faith if the Director has knowledge concerning the matter in question that makes reliance otherwise permitted by this Section 6.4 unwarranted.
A Director shall not be liable for any action taken as a Director, or any failure to take any action, unless (a) the Director has breached or failed to perform the duties of the Director's office in compliance with this Section 6.4, and (b) the breach or failure to perform constitutes willful misconduct or recklessness.
. . In determining whether to take or refrain from taking any action with respect to any matter, including making or declining to make any recommendation to shareholders of the Corporation, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, consider both the short term and long term best interests of the Corporation (including the possibility that these interests may be best served by the continued independence of the Corporation), taking into account, and weighing as the Directors deem appropriate, the social and economic effects thereof on the Corporation's present and future employees, suppliers and customers of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, the communities in which offices or other facilities of the Corporation are located, and any other factors the Directors consider pertinent.
Section 6.5
Factors to be Considered by Board
. . Any or all of the members of the Board of Directors may be removed only at a meeting of the shareholders or Directors called expressly for that purpose. Removal by the shareholders requires an affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares. Removal by the Board of Directors requires an affirmative vote of both (a) a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, and (b) a majority of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII hereof). No Director may be removed except as provided in this Section 6.6.
Section 6.6
Removal of Directors
 
. . The holders of one (1) or more series of Preferred Stock may be entitled to elect all or a specified number of Directors, but only to the extent and subject to limitations as may be set forth in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5.5 hereof describing the terms of the series of Preferred Stock.
Section 6.7
Election of Directors by Holders of Preferred Stock
. . Except as otherwise set forth in this Article VI, each Director shall be elected by a vote of the majority of votes cast with respect to the Director at any shareholders meeting for the election of Directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if as of the record date for such meeting the number of Director nominees to be considered at the meeting exceeds the number of Directors to be elected, each Director shall be elected by a vote of the plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of Directors. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a Director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" such Director.
Section 6.8
Standard for Election of Directors by Shareholders
. . Meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held at such time and at such place, either within or without the State of Indiana, as may be stated in or fixed in accordance with the By-Laws of the Corporation and specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice of any such meetings.
Section 7.1
Meetings of Shareholders
. . Special meetings of the shareholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the Corporation Law, may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors or the officers authorized to do so by the By-Laws. Shareholders of the Corporation shall not be authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders.
Section 7.2
Special Meetings of Shareholders
. . Unless the Indiana Business Corporation Law provides otherwise, at all meetings of shareholders, twenty-five percent (25%) of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for action on the matter. Action may be taken at a shareholders' meeting only on matters with respect to which a quorum exists; provided, however, that any meeting of shareholders, including annual and special meetings and any adjournments thereof, may be adjourned to a later date although less than a quorum is present. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting.
Section 7.3
Quorum
. . Meetings of the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Indiana, as may be authorized by the By-Laws and specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice of any
Section 7.4
Meetings of Directors
 
such meetings or otherwise specified by the Board of Directors. Unless the By-Laws provide otherwise, (a) regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice of the date, time, place, or purpose of the meeting and (b) the notice for a special meeting need not describe the purpose or purposes of the special meeting.
. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or shareholders, or of any committee of such Board, may be taken without a meeting, if the action is taken by all members of the Board or all shareholders entitled to vote on the action, or by all members of such committee, as the case may be. The action must be evidenced by one (1) or more written consents, in one or more counterparts, describing the action taken, signed by each Director, or all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action, or by each member of such committee, as the case may be, and, in the case of action by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken or, in the case of action by the shareholders, delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records. Action taken under this Section 7.5 is effective when the last Director, shareholder, or committee member, as the case may be, signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different prior or subsequent effective date, in which case the action is effective on or as of the specified date. Executed consents returned to the Corporation by facsimile transmission may be relied upon as, and shall have the same effect as, originals of such consents. A consent signed under this Section 7.5 shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of all members of the Board, or all shareholders, or all members of the committee, as the case may be, and may be described as such in any document.
Section 7.5
Action Without Meeting
. . The Board of Directors shall have the exclusive power to make, alter, amend, or repeal, or to waive provisions of, the By-Laws of the Corporation by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time, except as expressly provided in Section 6.1 hereof and as provided by the Corporation Law. All provisions for the regulation of the business and management of the affairs of the Corporation not stated in these Articles of Incorporation shall be stated in the By-Laws. The Board of Directors may adopt Emergency By-Laws of the Corporation and shall have the exclusive power (except as may otherwise be provided therein) to make, alter, amend, or repeal, or to waive provisions of, the Emergency By-Laws by the affirmative vote of both (a) a majority of the entire number of Directors at the time and (b) a majority of the entire number of Directors who then qualify as Continuing Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Article VIII hereof).
Section 7.6
By-Laws
. .
Section 7.7
Interest of Directors
(a) A conflict of interest transaction is a transaction with the Corporation in which a Director of the Corporation has a direct or indirect interest. A conflict of interest transaction is not voidable by the Corporation solely because of the Director's interest in the transaction if any one (1) of the following is true:
(1) The material facts of the transaction and the Director's interest were disclosed or known to the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors or committee authorized, approved, or ratified the transaction.
 
(2) The material facts of the transaction and the Director's interest were disclosed or known to the shareholders entitled to vote and they authorized, approved, or ratified the transaction.
(3) The transaction was fair to the Corporation.
(b) For purposes of this Section 7.7, a Director of the Corporation has an indirect interest in a transaction if:
(1) Another entity in which the Director has a material financial interest or in which the Director is a general partner is a party to the transaction; or
(2) Another entity of which the Director is a director, officer, or trustee is a party to the transaction and the transaction is, or is required to be, considered by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(c) For purposes of Section 7.7(a)(1), a conflict of interest transaction is authorized, approved, or ratified if it receives the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors on the Board of Directors (or on the committee) who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction, but a transaction may not be authorized, approved, or ratified under this section by a single Director. If a majority of the Directors who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction vote to authorize, approve, or ratify the transaction, a quorum shall be deemed present for the purpose of taking action under this Section 7.7. The presence of, or a vote cast by, a Director with a direct or indirect interest in the transaction does not affect the validity of any action taken under Section 7.7(a)(1), if the transaction is otherwise authorized, approved, or ratified as provided in such subsection.
(d) For purposes of Section 7.7(a)(2), a conflict of interest transaction is authorized, approved, or ratified if it receives the affirmative vote of the holders of shares representing a majority of the votes entitled to be cast. Shares owned by or voted under the control of a Director who has a direct or indirect interest in the transaction, and shares owned by or voted under the control of an entity described in Section 7.7(b), may be counted in such a vote of shareholders.
. . Shareholders of the Corporation are not personally liable for the acts or debts of the Corporation, nor is private property of shareholders subject to the payment of corporate debts.
Section 7.8
Nonliability of Shareholders
. .
Section 7.9
Indemnification of Officers, Directors, and Other Eligible Persons
(a) The Corporation shall indemnify every Eligible Person against all Liability and Expense that may be incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any Claim to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by the Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than such law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), or otherwise consistent with the public policy of the State of Indiana. In furtherance of the foregoing, and not by way of limitation, every Eligible Person shall be indemnified by the Corporation against all Liability and
 
reasonable Expense that may be incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any Claim, (1) if such Eligible Person is Wholly Successful with respect to the Claim, or (2) if not Wholly Successful, then if such Eligible Person is determined, as provided in either Section 7.9(g) or 7.9(h), to have acted in good faith, in what he or she reasonably believed to be the best interests of the Corporation or at least not opposed to its best interests and, in addition, with respect to any criminal claim is determined to have had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was lawful or had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any Claim, by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval), or conviction or upon a plea of guilty or of nolo contendere, or its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that an Eligible Person did not meet the standards of conduct set forth in clause (2) of this subsection (a). The actions of an Eligible Person with respect to an employee benefit plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 shall be deemed to have been taken in what the Eligible Person reasonably believed to be the best interests of the Corporation or at least not opposed to its best interests if the Eligible Person reasonably believed he was acting in conformity with the requirements of such Act or he reasonably believed his actions to be in the interests of the participants in or beneficiaries of the plan.
(b) The term "Claim" as used in this Section 7.9 shall include every pending, threatened, or completed claim, action, suit, or proceeding and all appeals thereof (whether brought by or in the right of this Corporation or any other corporation or otherwise), civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, formal or informal, in which an Eligible Person may become involved, as a party or otherwise:
(1) by reason of his or her being or having been an Eligible Person, or
(2) by reason of any action taken or not taken by him or her in his or her capacity as an Eligible Person, whether or not he or she continued in such capacity at the time such Liability or Expense shall have been incurred.
(c) The term "Eligible Person" as used in this Section 7.9 shall mean every person (and the estate, heirs, and personal representatives of such person) who is or was a Director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director, officer, employee, partner, trustee, member, manager, agent, or fiduciary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other organization or entity, whether for profit or not. An Eligible Person shall also be considered to have been serving an employee benefit plan at the request of the Corporation if his or her duties to the Corporation also imposed duties on, or otherwise involved services by, him or her to the plan or to participants in or beneficiaries of the plan.
(d) The terms "Liability" and "Expense" as used in this Section 7.9 shall include, but shall not be limited to, counsel fees and disbursements and amounts of judgments, fines, or penalties against (including excise taxes assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan), and amounts paid in settlement by or on behalf of an Eligible Person.
(e) The term "Wholly Successful" as used in this Section 7.9 shall mean (1) termination of any Claim, whether on the merits or otherwise, against the Eligible Person in question without any finding of liability or guilt against him or her, (2) approval by a court, with
 
knowledge of the indemnity herein provided, of a settlement of any Claim, or (3) the expiration of a reasonable period of time after the making or threatened making of any Claim without the institution of the same, without any payment or promise made to induce a settlement.
(f) As used in this Section 7.9, the term "Corporation" includes all constituent entities in a consolidation or merger and the new or surviving corporation of such consolidation or merger, so that any Eligible Person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or agent of such a constituent entity, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent entity as a Director, officer, employee, partner, trustee, member, manager, agent, or fiduciary of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, limited liability company or other organization or entity, whether for profit or not, shall stand in the same position under this Section 7.9 with respect to the new or surviving corporation as he or she would if he or she had served the new or surviving corporation in the same capacity.
(g) Every Eligible Person claiming indemnification hereunder (other than one who has been Wholly Successful with respect to any Claim) shall be entitled to indemnification (1) if special independent legal counsel, which may be regular counsel of the Corporation, or other disinterested person or persons, in either case selected by the Board of Directors, whether or not a disinterested quorum exists (such counsel or person or persons being hereinafter called the "Referee"), shall deliver to the Corporation a written finding that such Eligible Person has met the standards of conduct set forth in Section 7.9(a)(2), and (2) if the Board of Directors, acting upon such written finding, so determines. The Board of Directors shall, if an Eligible Person is found to be entitled to indemnification pursuant to the preceding sentence, also determine the reasonableness of the Eligible Person's Expenses. The Eligible Person claiming indemnification shall, if requested, appear before the Referee, answer questions that the Referee deems relevant and shall be given ample opportunity to present to the Referee evidence upon which the Eligible Person relies for indemnification. The Corporation shall, at the request of the Referee, make available facts, opinions, or other evidence in any way relevant to the Referee's findings that are within the possession or control of the Corporation.
(h) If an Eligible Person claiming indemnification pursuant to Section 7.9(g) is found not to be entitled thereto, or if the Board of Directors fails to select a Referee under Section 7.9(g) within a reasonable amount of time following a written request of an Eligible Person for the selection of a Referee, or if the Referee or the Board of Directors fails to make a determination under Section 7.9(g) within a reasonable amount of time following the selection of a Referee, the Eligible Person may apply for indemnification with respect to a Claim to a court of competent jurisdiction, including a court in which the Claim is pending against the Eligible Person. On receipt of an application, the court, after giving notice to the Corporation and giving the Corporation ample opportunity to present to the court any information or evidence relating to the claim for indemnification that the Corporation deems appropriate, may order indemnification if it determines that the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification with respect to the Claim because such Eligible Person met the standards of conduct set forth in Section 7.9(a)(2). If the court determines that the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification, the court shall also determine the reasonableness of the Eligible Person's Expenses.
(i) Expenses incurred by an Eligible Person who is a Director or officer of the Corporation in defending any Claim shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Claim promptly as they are incurred upon receipt of an undertaking by or on
 
behalf of such Eligible Person to repay such amount if he or she is determined not to be entitled to indemnification. Expenses incurred by any other Eligible Person with respect to any Claim may be advanced by the Corporation (by action of the Board of Directors, whether or not a disinterested quorum exists) prior to the final disposition thereof upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Eligible Person to repay such amount if he or she is determined not to be entitled to indemnification.
(j) The rights of indemnification and advancement of Expenses provided in this Section 7.9 shall be in addition to any rights to which any Eligible Person may otherwise be entitled. Irrespective of the provisions of this Section 7.9, the Board of Directors may, at any time and from time to time, (1) approve indemnification of any Eligible Person to the full extent permitted by the provisions of applicable law at the time in effect, whether on account of past or future transactions, and (2) authorize the Corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any Eligible Person against any Liability or Expense asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such Liability or Expense.
(k) The provisions of this Section 7.9 shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each Eligible Person, and an Eligible Person's rights hereunder shall not be diminished or otherwise adversely affected by any repeal, amendment, or modification of this Section 7.9 that occurs subsequent to such person becoming an Eligible Person.
(l) The provisions of this Section 7.9 shall be applicable to Claims made or commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions to act occurring before or after the adoption hereof.
(m) If this Section 7.9 or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Director or officer and may indemnify each employee or agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Section 7.9 that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
. . Except with the prior approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors (as defined in Section 8.14 below), no Person (as defined in Section 8.14 below) shall Beneficially Own (as defined in Section 8.14 below) shares of Capital Stock (as defined in Section 8.14 below) in excess of the Ownership Limit (as defined in Section 8.14 below). Any Transfer (as defined in Section 8.14 below) that, if effective, would result in any Person Beneficially Owning Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit shall result in
Section 8.1
Limitation on Ownership
 
such intended transferee acquiring no rights in such shares of Capital Stock (other than those rights expressly granted in this Article VIII) and such number of shares of Capital Stock shall be deemed transferred to the Share Escrow Agent (as defined in Section 8.14 below) as set forth in this Article VIII.
. . If, notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article VIII, there is a purported Transfer or other change in the capital structure of the Corporation such that any Person would Beneficially Own shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit (a "Purported Owner"), then, upon such Transfer or change in capital structure, such shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit shall be Excess Shares for purposes of this Article VIII; provided, however, that in the event that any Person becomes a Purported Owner as a result of Beneficial Ownership of Capital Stock of one Person being aggregated with another Person, then the number of Excess Shares subject to this Article VIII shall be allocated pro rata among each Purported Owner in proportion to each Person's total Beneficial Ownership (without regard to any aggregation with another Person pursuant to Section 8.14(b)(4) or (5). Upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any Person to exceed the Ownership Limit (including without limitation the expiration of a voting trust, without being renewed on substantially similar terms, that entitled such Person to an exemption from the Ownership Limit), all shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by such Person in excess of the Ownership Limit shall also be Excess Shares for purposes of this Article VIII, such Person shall be deemed the Purported Owner of such Excess Shares and such Person's rights in such Excess Shares shall be as prescribed in this Article VIII. Excess Shares shall not constitute a separate class of Capital Stock.
Section 8.2
Excess Shares
. . If the Corporation at any time determines that a Transfer has taken place in violation of Section 8.1 or that a Purported Owner intends to acquire or has attempted to acquire Beneficial Ownership of any shares of Capital Stock in violation of Section 8.1, the Corporation shall take such action as it deems advisable to refuse to give effect to or to prevent such Transfer, including, without limitation, refusing to give effect to such Transfer on the books of the Corporation or instituting proceedings to enjoin or rescind such Transfer; provided, however, that any purported Transfers in violation of Section 8.1 shall automatically result in all shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit being deemed Excess Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Article VIII shall limit the authority of the Corporation to take such other action as it deems necessary or advisable to protect the Corporation and the interests of its stockholders.
Section 8.3
Authority of the Corporation
. . Any Purported Owner who acquires or attempts to acquire shares of Capital Stock in violation of Section 8.1, or any Purported Owner who is a transferee such that any shares of Capital Stock are deemed Excess Shares under Section 8.2, shall immediately give written notice to the Corporation of such event and shall provide to the Corporation such other information as the Corporation may request.
Section 8.4
Written Notice Required
. . Each certificate for Capital Stock issued by the Corporation shall bear an appropriate legend with regard to the restrictions on ownership and transfer of stock set forth in these Articles of Incorporation.
Section 8.5
Restrictive Legend
. . Upon the occurrence of a Transfer or an event that results in Excess Shares pursuant to Section 8.2, such Excess Shares shall automatically be
Section 8.6
Share Escrow Agent
 
transferred immediately to the Share Escrow Agent, which Excess Shares, subject to the provisions of this Article VIII, shall be held by the Share Escrow Agent until such time as the Excess Shares are transferred to a Person whose acquisition thereof will not violate the Ownership Limit (a "Permitted Transferee") and the Share Escrow Agent shall be authorized to execute any and all documents sufficient to transfer title to any Permitted Transferee, even in the absence of receipt of certificate(s) representing Excess Shares. The Corporation shall take such actions as it deems necessary to give effect to such transfer to the Share Escrow Agent, including by issuing a stop transfer order to the Corporation's transfer agent with respect to any attempted transfer by the Purported Owner or its nominee of any Excess Shares and by giving effect, or by instructing the Corporation's transfer agent to give effect, to such transfer to a Permitted Transferee on the books of the Corporation. Excess Shares so held shall be issued and outstanding shares of Capital Stock. The Purported Owner shall have no rights in such Excess Shares except as provided in Sections 8.7, 8.8, and 8.11 and the administration of the Excess Shares escrow shall be governed by the terms of a Share Escrow Agent Agreement.
. . The Share Escrow Agent, as record holder of Excess Shares, shall be entitled to receive all dividends and distributions as may be declared by the Board of Directors with respect to Excess Shares (the "Excess Share Dividends") and shall hold the Excess Share Dividends until disbursed in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.11 following. The Purported Owner, with respect to Excess Shares purported to be Beneficially Owned by such Purported Owner prior to such time that the Corporation determines that such shares are Excess Shares, shall repay to the Share Escrow Agent the amount of any Excess Share Dividends received by it that (i) are attributable to any Excess Shares and (ii) the record date of which is on or after the date that such shares become Excess Shares. The Corporation shall take all measures that it determines reasonably necessary to recover the amount of any Excess Share Dividends paid to a Purported Owner, including, if necessary, withholding any portion of future dividends or distributions payable on shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by any Purported Owner (including on shares which fall below the Ownership Limit as well as on Excess Shares), and, as soon as practicable following the Corporation's receipt or withholding thereof, shall pay over to the Share Escrow Agent the dividends so received or withheld, as the case may be.
Section 8.7
Dividends on Excess Shares
. . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of, or any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation, the Share Escrow Agent shall be entitled to receive, ratably with each other holder of Capital Stock of the same class or series, that portion of the assets of the Corporation that is available for distribution to the holders of such class or series of Capital Stock. The Share Escrow Agent shall distribute to the Purported Owner the amounts received upon such liquidations, dissolution or winding up or distribution in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.11.
Section 8.8
Effect of Liquidation etc. on Excess Shares
. . The Share Escrow Agent shall be entitled to vote all Excess Shares. The Share Escrow Agent shall be instructed by the Corporation to vote, consent or assent the Excess Shares as follows: (i) if the matter concerned is the election of directors, the Share Escrow Agent shall vote, consent or assent the whole number of Excess Shares held by the Share Escrow Agent for each director by multiplying the number of votes held in escrow by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Nonaffiliated Votes cast for the director and the denominator of which is the number of Nonaffiliated Votes that could
Section 8.9
Voting of Excess Shares
 
have been cast in the election of the director and are present in person or by proxy at the meeting; (ii) where the matter under the Corporation Law or these Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation requires at least an absolute majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock in order to be effected, then the Share Escrow Agent shall vote, assent or consent all of such Excess Shares in favor of or in opposition to such matter as the majority of all Nonaffiliated Votes are cast; and (iii) on all other matters, the Share Escrow Agent shall at all times vote, assent or consent all of such shares in the identical proportion in favor of or in opposition to such matter as Nonaffiliated Votes are cast. If any calculation of votes under the preceding sentence would require a fractional vote, the Share Escrow Agent shall vote the next lower number of whole Excess Shares. The Share Escrow Agent shall use all reasonable commercial efforts to ensure, with respect to Excess Shares, that such Excess Shares are counted as being present for the purposes of any quorum required for stockholder action of the Corporation and to vote as set forth above. For purposes of these Articles of Incorporation, "Nonaffiliated Votes" shall mean the votes cast by stockholders other than any Share Escrow Agent with respect to Excess Shares.
. .
Section 8.10
Sale of Excess Shares
(a) In an orderly fashion so as not to materially adversely affect the price of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange or, if Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the exchange or other principal market on which Common Stock is traded, the Share Escrow Agent shall sell or cause the sale of Excess Shares at such time or times as the Share Escrow Agent determines to be appropriate. The Share Escrow Agent shall have the right to take such actions as the Share Escrow Agent deems appropriate to seek to restrict sale of the shares to Permitted Transferees.
(b) The Share Escrow Agent shall have the power to convey to the purchaser of any Excess Shares sold by the Share Escrow Agent ownership of the Excess Shares free of any interest of the Purported Owner of those Excess Shares and free of any other adverse interest arising through the Purported Owner.
(c) Upon acquisition by any Permitted Transferee of any Excess Shares sold by the Share Escrow Agent or the Purported Owner, such shares shall upon such sale cease to be Excess Shares and shall become regular shares of Capital Stock in the class to which the Excess Shares belong, and the purchaser of such shares shall acquire such shares free of any claims of the Share Escrow Agent or the Purported Owner.
 
(d) To the extent permitted by law, none of the Corporation, the Share Escrow Agent or anyone else shall have any liability to the Purported Owner or anyone else by reason of any action or inaction the Corporation or the Share Escrow Agent shall take which either shall in good faith believe to be within the scope of its authority under this Article VIII or by reason of any decision as to when or how to sell any Excess Shares or by reason of any other action or inaction in connection with activities under this Article VIII which docs not constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting by implication the scope of the preceding sentence, to the extent permitted by law, (a) neither the Share Escrow Agent nor the Corporation shall have any liability on grounds that either failed to take actions which would have produced higher proceeds for any of the Excess Shares or by reason of the manner or timing for any disposition of any Excess Shares and (b) the Share Escrow Agent shall not be deemed to be a fiduciary or Agent of any Purported Owner.
. . The proceeds from the sale of the Excess Shares to a Permitted Transferee and any Excess Share Dividends shall be distributed as follows: (i) first, to the Share Escrow Agent for any costs and expenses incurred in respect of its administration of the Excess Shares that have not theretofore been reimbursed by the Corporation; (ii) second, to the Corporation for all costs and expenses incurred by the Corporation in connection with the appointment of the Share Escrow Agent, the payment of fees to the Share Escrow Agent with respect to the services provided by the Share Escrow Agent in respect of the escrow and all funds expended by the Corporation to reimburse the Share Escrow Agent for costs and expenses incurred by the Share Escrow Agent in respect of its administration of the Excess Shares and for all fees, disbursements and expenses incurred by the Share Escrow Agent in connection with the sale of the Excess Shares; and (iii) third, the remainder thereof (as the case may be) to the Purported Owner or the Person who was the holder of record before the shares were transferred to the Share Escrow Agent (depending on who shall at such time be entitled to any economic interest in the Excess Shares); provided, however, if the Share Escrow Agent shall have any questions as to whether any security interest or other interest adverse to the Purported Owner shall have existed with respect to any Excess Shares, the Share Escrow Agent shall not be obligated to disburse proceeds for those shares until the Share Escrow Agent is provided with such evidence as the Share Escrow Agent shall deem necessary to determine the parties who shall be entitled such proceeds.
Section 8.11
Application of the Proceeds from the Sale of Excess Shares
. . Subject to Section 8.13, nothing contained in this Article VIII or in any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation shall limit the authority of the Corporation to take such other action as it deems necessary or advisable to protect the Corporation and the interests of its stockholders.
Section 8.12
No Limit on the Authority of the Corporation
. . Nothing in these Articles of Incorporation shall preclude the settlement of any transactions entered into through the facilities of the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange or through the means of any automated quotation system now or hereafter in effect.
Section 8.13
Settlement of Transactions
 
. . The following definitions shall apply with respect to this Article VIII:
Section 8.14
Definitions
(a) "Affiliate" and "associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or supplemented (the "Exchange Act") at the time as of which the term shall be applied.
(b) Except as is provided in (c) of this Section 8.14, a Person shall be deemed to "Beneficially Own," be the "Beneficial Owner" of or have "Beneficial Ownership" of any Capital Stock:
(1) in which such Person shall then have a direct or indirect beneficial ownership interest;
(2) in which such Person shall have the right to acquire any direct or indirect beneficial ownership interest pursuant to any option or other agreement (either immediately or after the passage of time or the occurrence of any contingency);
(3) which such Person shall have the right to vote;
(4) in which such Person shall hold any other interest which would count in determining whether such Person would be required to file a Schedule 13D; or
(5) which shall be Beneficially Owned (under the concepts provided in the preceding clauses) by any affiliate or associate of the particular Person or by any other Person with whom the particular Person or any such affiliate or associate has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities).
(c) The following provisions are included to clarify (b) above:
(1) A Person shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of, or have Beneficial Ownership of Capital Stock by reason of possessing the right to vote if (i) such right arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act, and (ii) such Person is not the Purported Owner of any Excess Shares, is not named as holding a beneficial ownership interest in any Capital Stock in any filing on Schedule 13D and is not an affiliate or associate of any such Purported Owner or named Person.
(2) A member of a national securities exchange or a registered depositary shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of or have Beneficial Ownership of Capital Stock held directly or indirectly by it on behalf of another Person (and not for its own account) solely because such member or depositary is the record holder of such Capital Stock, and (in the case of such member), pursuant to the rules of such exchange, such member may direct the vote of such Capital Stock without instruction on matters which are uncontested and do not affect substantially the rights or privileges of the holders of the Capital Stock to be voted but is otherwise precluded by
 
the rules of such exchange from voting such Capital Stock without instruction on either contested matters or matters that may affect substantially the rights or the privileges of the holders of such Capital Stock to be voted.
(3) A Person who in the ordinary course of business is a pledgee of Capital Stock under a written pledge agreement shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of or have Beneficial Ownership of such pledged Capital Stock solely by reason of such pledge until the pledgee has taken all formal steps which are necessary to declare a default or has otherwise acquired the power to vote or to direct to vote such pledged Capital Stock, provided that;
(A) the pledge agreement is bona fide and was not entered into with the purpose nor with the effect of changing or influencing the control of the Corporation, nor in connection with any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act; and
(B) the pledge agreement does not grant to the pledgee the right to vote or to direct the vote of the pledged securities prior to the time the pledgee has taken all formal steps which are necessary to declare a default.
(4) A Person engaged in business as an underwriter or a placement agent for securities who enters into an agreement to acquire or acquires Capital Stock solely by reason of its participation in good faith and in the ordinary course of its business in the capacity of underwriter or placement agent in any underwriting or agent representation registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and in effect on the date these Articles of Incorporation were filed with the office of the Indiana Secretary of State (the "Securities Act"), a bona fide private placement, a resale under Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act or in any foreign or other offering exempt from the registration requirements under the Securities Act shall not be deemed to Beneficially Own, be the Beneficial Owner of or have Beneficial Ownership of such securities until the expiration of forty (40) days after the date of such acquisition so long as (i) such Person does not vote such Capital Stock during such period and (ii) such participation is not with the purpose or with the effect of changing or influencing control of the Corporation, nor in connection with or facilitating any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act.
(5) If the Corporation shall sell shares in a transaction not involving any public offering, then each purchaser in such offering shall be deemed to obtain Beneficial Ownership in such offering of the shares purchased by such purchaser, but no particular purchaser shall be deemed to Beneficially Own or have acquired Beneficial Ownership or be the Beneficial Owner in such offering of shares purchased by any other purchaser solely by reason of the fact that all such purchasers are parties to customary agreements relating to the purchase of equity securities directly from the Corporation in a transaction not involving a public offering, provided that:
(A) all the purchasers are persons specified in Rule 13d-1(b)(1)(ii) promulgated under the Exchange Act;
 
(B) the purchase is in the ordinary course of each purchaser's business and not with the purpose nor with the effect of changing or influencing control of the Corporation, nor in connection with or as a participant in any transaction having such purpose or effect, including any transaction subject to Rule 13d-3(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act;
(C) there is no agreement among or between any purchasers to act together with respect to the Corporation or its securities except for the purpose of facilitating the specific purchase involved; and
(D) the only actions among or between any purchasers with respect to the Corporation or its securities subsequent to the closing date of the nonpublic offering are those which are necessary to conclude ministerial matters directly related to the completion of the offer or sale of the securities sold in such offering.
(6) The Share Escrow Agent shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any Excess Shares held by such Share Escrow Agent pursuant to a Share Escrow Agent Agreement, nor shall any such Excess Shares be aggregated with any other share of Capital Stock held by affiliates or associates of such Share Escrow Agent.
(d) "Capital Stock" shall mean shares (or any other basic unit) of any class or series of any voting security which the Corporation may at any time issue or be authorized to issue, that entitles the holder thereof to vote on any election, but not necessarily all elections, of directors. To the extent that classes or series of Capital Stock vote together in the election of directors with equal votes per share, they shall be treated as a single class of Capital Stock for the purpose of computing the relevant Ownership Limit or the right to amend these Articles of Incorporation.
(e) "Continuing Director" shall mean each member of the initial Board of Directors of the Corporation and any new member of the Board of Directors whose nomination for election to the board was approved by a vote of two-thirds of the directors still in office who were initial directors named in these Articles of Incorporation or whose nomination was approved by such directors.
(f) "Institutional Investor" means any Person if (but only if) such Person is:
(1) a broker or dealer registered under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
(2) a bank as defined in Section 3(a)(6) of the Exchange Act;
(3) an insurance company as defined in Section 3(a)(19) of the Exchange Act;
 
(4) an investment company registered under Section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(5) an investment adviser registered under Section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940;
(6) an employee benefit plan, or pension fund which is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 or an endowment fund;
(7) a parent holding company, provided the aggregate amount held directly by the parent, and directly and indirectly by its subsidiaries which are not persons specified in subsections (1) through (6) above, does not exceed one percent of the securities of the subject class such as common stock; or
(8) a group, provided that all the members are Persons specified in the subsections (1) through (7) above.
(g) "License Agreement" shall mean the license agreement between the Corporation and the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, including any and all addenda thereto, now in effect and, as it may be amended, modified, superseded and/or replaced from time to time, with respect to, among other things, the "Blue Cross" and "Blue Shield" name and mark.
(h) "Noninstitutional Investor" means any Person that is not an Institutional Investor.:
(i) "Ownership Limit" shall mean the following:
(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Subsection (i), the Ownership Limit for any Noninstitutional Investor shall be that number of shares of Capital Stock one share lower than the number of shares of Capital Stock which would represent 5% of the Voting Power.
(2) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Subsection (i), the Ownership Limit for any Institutional Investor shall be that number of shares of Capital Stock one share lower than the number of shares of Capital Stock which would represent 10% of the Voting Power.
(3) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Subsection (i), the Ownership Limit for any Person shall be one share lower than that number of shares of Common Stock or other equity securities (or a combination thereof) which would represent 20% of the ownership interest in the Corporation.
(4) In the event the Corporation and Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association shall agree in writing, through an amendment of the License Agreement or otherwise, that an Ownership Limit of a higher percentage than that prescribed in clause (1), (2) or (3) shall apply, then the Ownership Limit shall be as specified in such written agreement.
 
(5) In the event any particular Person shall Beneficially Own shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit which would apply were it not for this clause (5) (the "Regular Limit"), such ownership shall not be deemed to exceed the Ownership Limit provided that (i) such Person shall not at any time Beneficially Own shares of Capital Stock in excess of the Regular Limit plus 1% and (ii) within thirty (30) days of the time when the particular Person becomes aware of the fact that the regular Limit has been exceeded, the particular Person reduces such Person's Beneficial Ownership below the Regular Limit.
(j) "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, association, joint venture or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of any such entity.
(k) "Schedule 13D" means a report on Schedule 13D under Regulation 13D of the Exchange Act as in effect on the date these Articles of Incorporation were filed with the office of the Indiana Secretary of State and any report which may be required in the future under any requirements which Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association shall reasonably judge to have any of the purposes served by Schedule 13D as in effect on the date these Articles of Incorporation were filed with the office of the Indiana Secretary of State.
(l) "Share Escrow Agent" shall mean the Person appointed by the Corporation to act as escrow agent with respect to some or all of the Excess Shares.
(m) "Transfer" shall mean any sale, transfer, gift, hypothecation, pledge, assignment, devise or other disposition of Capital Stock (including (i) the granting of any option or entering into any agreement for the sale, transfer or other disposition of Capital Stock or (ii) the sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for Capital Stock), whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record, constructively or beneficially and whether by operation of law or otherwise.
(n) "Voting Power." The percentage of the voting power attributable to the shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by any particular Person shall be equal to the percentage of all votes which could be cast in any election of any director which could be accounted for by the shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by that particular Person. If in connection with an election for any particular position on the Board, shares in different classes or series are entitled to be voted together for purposes of such election, then in determining the number of "all votes which could be cast" in the election for that particular position for purposes of the preceding sentence, the number shall be equal to the number of votes which could be cast in the election for that particular position if all shares entitled to be voted in such election (regardless of series or class) were in fact voted in such election. If the Corporation shall issue any series or class of shares for which positions on the Board are reserved or shall otherwise issue shares which have voting rights which can arise or vary based upon terms governing that class or series, then the percentage of the voting power represented by the shares of Capital Stock Beneficially Owned by any particular Person shall be the highest percentage of the total votes which could be accounted for by those shares in any election of any director.
 
The name and post office address of the incorporator of the Corporation are as follows:
 
. . Except as otherwise expressly provided for in these Articles of Incorporation, the Corporation shall be deemed, for all purposes, to have reserved the right to amend, alter, change, or repeal any provision contained in these Articles of Incorporation to the extent and in the manner now or hereafter permitted or prescribed by statute, and all rights herein conferred upon shareholders are granted subject to such reservation.
Section 10.1
Amendment or Repeal
. . The Chair of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer or any other officers designated by the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend any meeting of shareholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock, and to act, vote (or execute proxies to vote) and exercise in person or by proxy all other rights, powers and privileges incident to the ownership of such stock. Such officers acting on behalf of the Corporation shall have full power and authority to execute any instrument expressing consent to or dissent from any action of any such corporation without a meeting.
Section 10.2
Voting as a Shareholder
. . The captions of the Articles and Sections of these Articles of Incorporation have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not in any way define, limit, construe, or describe the scope or intent of any Article or Section hereof.
Section 10.3
Captions
 


