FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20120828203741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 28, 2012, WellPoint, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it is actively searching for a candidate to succeed Angela F. Braly as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board of Directors has established a search committee to consider both internal and external candidates, with the assistance of a search firm.
By mutual agreement between Ms. Braly and the Company, the Board has taken action such that Ms. Braly's position as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company has terminated. She has also stepped down from her positions as Chair and as a member of the Board of Directors. Pursuant to a separation agreement between Ms. Braly and the Company (the "Separation Agreement"), Ms. Braly will remain employed by the Company until December 31, 2012, and, subject to the execution of a waiver and release, she will receive the severance compensation and benefits described in her employment agreement and her stock options that are vested as of December 31, 2012 will continue to be exercisable pursuant to the original expiration dates.
The Company also announced that Jackie M. Ward, the Company's Lead Director, has been named the Non-Executive Chair of the Board of Directors effective immediately.
In the interim, John Cannon, the Company's Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Public Affairs Officer will serve as Interim President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Cannon, 58, has served as the Company's Executive Vice President and General Counsel since December 2007 and he became the Company's Secretary in February 2009. Mr. Cannon assumed responsibility for the Public Affairs department in December 2010. Before joining the Company, Mr. Cannon spent 19 years with CIGNA Corporation in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility, including as senior vice president, deputy general counsel and head of Public Affairs.
The text of the Company's press release announcing the management changes described above is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The above description of the Separation Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the agreement, which is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.19.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 29, 2012
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 10.19
(the ""), dated as of August 28, 2012 (the ""), between WellPoint, Inc., an Indiana corporation (the "") and Angela F. Braly (the "").
THIS SEPARATON AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
Company
Executive
the Company and Executive are parties to an Employment Agreement dated February 24, 2007, a First Amendment to the Employment Agreement dated January 1, 2009, and a Second Amendment to the Employment Agreement dated March 8, 2011 (collectively, the "");
WHEREAS,
Employment Agreement
, in accordance with Section 3(b)(iv) of the Employment Agreement, the Company has decided to terminate Executive's employment Without Cause;
WHEREAS
, in order to ensure that the Company has an adequate opportunity to secure a qualified successor and for Executive to transition her duties to her successor, the Company wants Executive to remain employed through December 31, 2012;
WHEREAS
, Executive is willing to remain employed through December 31, 2012 and reasonably assist the Company with the transition of her duties to her successor.
WHEREAS
, intending to be legally bound and for good and valuable consideration, the Company and Executive agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
1. . The foregoing recitals are true and correct and incorporated herein.
Recitals
2. .
Termination of Employment, Interim Duties, and Severance Benefits
(a) Executive's position as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company will terminate as of the Effective Date. Executive's employment with the Company as an employee and not an officer will continue until and cease on December 31, 2012 (""), without the need for any further notice from the Company; provided, however, that the Company retains the right to terminate Executive's employment sooner if Executive engages in conduct that would constitute Cause for termination of employment, as defined in the Employment Agreement, in which case, the Termination Date shall be the date the Company terminates Executive's employment for Cause. Through December 31, 2012, Executive shall continue to be an employee of the Company and shall be available to the Company and her successor as reasonably needed to provide transition services, and the Company shall continue to compensate Executive as provided for in the Employment Agreement, notwithstanding the change in her duties and responsibilities.
Termination Date
(b) As of the Effective Date, Executive shall cease to serve as the Chairperson of the Company's Board of Directors and as a member of the Board of Directors.
(c) Provided Executive timely signs and does not revoke a Waiver and Release substantially in the form attached to the Employment Agreement, the Company shall:
(i) Provide Executive with the severance compensation and benefits described in the Employment Agreement for a Separation from Service by reason of a termination of Executive's employment by the Company for a reason other than death, Disability or Cause (i.e., an involuntary termination Without Cause), including, but not limited to, the compensation and benefits described in Sections 4(a), (b), (c), (f) and (g) of the Employment Agreement; and
(ii) Permit all of Executive's vested stock options as of the Termination Date to remain exercisable through the full original term of each such option grant, notwithstanding the termination of her employment. The Company acknowledges that the commitment in this Section 2(c)(ii) is intended to supersede anything to the contrary in any other prior agreement.
(d) The Executive agrees that the restrictive covenants described in Section 6 of the Employment Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the greater of 18 months or so long as the Executive holds outstanding vested stock options.
3. .This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law.
Applicable Law
4. .This Agreement and the Employment Agreement reflect the complete understanding between the parties concerning their subject matters, and supersede any and all prior agreements, promises, representations or inducements concerning those subject matters.
Entire Agreement
5. . Neither the execution of this Agreement nor the performance of its terms and conditions shall be construed or considered by any party or by any other person as an admission of liability or wrongdoing by either party.
No Admissions
6. .This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be considered an original instrument and all of which together will be considered one and the same agreement and will become effective when all executed counterparts have been delivered to the respective Parties. Delivery of executed pages by facsimiles transmission or e-mail will constitute effective and binding execution and delivery of this Agreement.
Counterparts
7. .This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Company and its respective successors and assigns.
Assignment
8. . Any disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement, including the breach or validity thereof, shall be finally resolved by arbitration in accordance with the procedure set forth in Section 14 of the Employment Agreement.
Dispute Resolution
 
 
, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 August 28, 2012  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) announced that it is actively searching for a candidate to succeed Angela F. Braly as the President and Chief Executive Officer of WellPoint, who has stepped down from those positions today. The Board of Directors has established a search committee to consider both internal and external candidates, with the assistance of a search firm.
Indianapolis, IN
In the interim, John Cannon, the Company's Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Public Affairs Officer, will serve as interim President and CEO. WellPoint also announced that Jackie M. Ward, WellPoint's Lead Director, has been named the Non-Executive Chair of the Board of Directors effective immediately.
Ms. Ward commented, "Our Board continues to believe that time will prove the wisdom of potentially transformative actions taken under Angela's leadership, from the sale of the pharmacy benefit management business to Express Scripts to the recent and proposed acquisitions of CareMore, 1-800-CONTACTS and Amerigroup. But now is the right time for a leadership change. We believe the remaining executive team is dynamic and strong, with great potential to drive WellPoint's future success, and John Cannon in particular is the right person to lead our most important initiative, which is the completion of the Amerigroup transaction. John has reported to the Board that he does not wish to be considered for the permanent CEO position."
About WellPoint, Inc.
At WellPoint, we believe there is an important connection between our members' health and well-beingand the value we bring our customers and shareholders. So each day we work to improve the health of our members and their communities. And, we can make a real difference since we have approximately 34 million people in our branded health plans, and approximately 65 million people served through our subsidiaries. As an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, WellPoint serves members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire,
New York (as the Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as the Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, WellPoint's plans do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, or Empire Blue Cross (in the New York service areas). WellPoint also serves customers across the country through our UniCare subsidiary and in certain California, Arizona and Nevada markets through our CareMore subsidiary. Our 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc. subsidiary offers customers online sales of contact lenses, eyeglasses and other ocular products. Additional information about WellPoint is available at .
www.wellpoint.com
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Kristin Binns
(917) 697-7802
Kristin.binns@wellpoint.com


