FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20121002204415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 2, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the pricing of its $1.35 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.750% convertible senior debentures due 2042, which will be offered only to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
A copy of the press release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The debentures, and any shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures, have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities law, and may not be offered or sold in the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, any U.S. persons absent registration under the Securities Act, except pursuant to an applicable exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. This Form 8-K (including the information incorporated by reference herein) does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, including the debentures or any shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures, nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale of any securities, including the debentures or any shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
 
WELLPOINT SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
WellPoint and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this report, in presentations, press releases, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. The projections referenced in this report are forward-looking and they are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by PSLRA. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)", "intend", "estimate", "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in the public filings that we and AMERIGROUP Corporation have made with the SEC; increased government participation in, or regulation or taxation of, health benefits and managed care operations, including, but not limited to, the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rates including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practices; our ability to consummate the acquisition of AMERIGROUP Corporation and our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the AMERIGROUP Corporation and 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc. acquisitions within the expected timeframes or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integrations may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transactions may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients and suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transactions; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; reduced enrollment, as well as a negative change in our health care product mix; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon and funding risks with respect to revenue received from
participation therein; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at health benefits companies and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to health care services provided by our subsidiaries; risks inherent in selling healthcare products in the consumer retail market; our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock due to the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other considerations; non-compliance by any party with the Express Scripts, Inc. pharmacy benefit management services agreement, which could result in financial penalties, our inability to meet customer demands, and sanctions imposed by governmental entities, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; events that result in negative publicity for us or the health benefits industry; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems and e-business organization and to maintain good relationships with third party vendors for information system resources; events that may negatively affect our license with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; intense competition to attract and retain employees; unauthorized disclosure of member sensitive or confidential information; changes in the economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our investment portfolios and liquidity; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital and the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; general risks associated with mergers and acquisitions; various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations; future public health epidemics and catastrophes; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities law, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in our SEC reports.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 3, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
INDIANAPOLIS  October 2, 2012  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced the pricing of its offering of $1.35 billion principal amount of senior convertible debentures due 2042. The debentures were offered and sold only to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The sale is expected to close October 9, 2012. WellPoint has also granted to the initial purchasers of the debentures the right to purchase up to an additional $150 million principal amount of debentures to cover overallotments, if any.
Interest will be payable on the debentures semi-annually at a rate of 2.750% per annum. In addition to regular interest, beginning on October 15, 2022, contingent interest will accrue in certain circumstances relating to the trading price of the debentures. In certain circumstances, the debentures will be convertible into cash up to their principal amount and any conversion value above the principal amount will, at WellPoint's option, be settled with shares of WellPoint common stock or cash. The initial conversion rate for the debentures is 13.2319 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the debentures, which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $75.575 per share, representing a 25% conversion premium based on the closing price of WellPoint's common stock of $60.46 per share on October 2, 2012. The debentures mature on October 15, 2042.
WellPoint may not redeem the debentures prior to October 20, 2022, except in connection with certain tax-related events. On or after October 20, 2022, WellPoint may redeem for cash all or a part of the debentures if the last reported sale price of its common stock has been at least 150% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive trading day period prior to the date on which WellPoint provides notice of redemption. The redemption price will equal 100% of the principal amount of the debentures to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including any contingent interest and additional interest, if any, to but excluding the redemption date. WellPoint may also redeem all or a part of the debentures for cash on or prior to October 15, 2013 at a premium if certain U.S. federal tax legislation, regulations or rules are enacted or are issued.
WellPoint intends to use approximately $400 million of the net proceeds to purchase shares of its common stock concurrently with the pricing of the debentures and intends to use the balance of the net proceeds from this offering, including the net proceeds from any exercise of the initial purchasers' overallotment option, for general corporate purposes, including but not limited to additional purchases of shares of its common stock pursuant to its share repurchase program and the payment of short- and/or long-term debt. Any such repurchases could affect or maintain the market price of WellPoint's common stock.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful.
The debentures and the underlying shares have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the anticipated use of the proceeds of the offering. WellPoint does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.
Contacts:
Investor Relations
Sean Meenan, 317-488-6713
Media
Kristin Binns, 917-697-7802


