FILE:WLP/WLP-8K-20121107061054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 7, 2012, WellPoint, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
All of the information furnished in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings, shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 7, 2012
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Nov. 7, 2012  WellPoint, Inc. (NYSE: WLP) today announced that third quarter 2012 net income was $691.2 million, or $2.15 per share. These results included $0.06 per share of net income resulting from net investment gains, partially offset by acquisition related costs. Net income in the third quarter of 2011 was $683.2 million, or $1.90 per share, and included net investment gains of $0.13 per share.
Indianapolis, Ind.
Excluding the items noted in each period, adjusted net income was $2.09 per share in the third quarter of 2012, an increase of 18.1 percent compared with adjusted net income of $1.77 per share in the prior year quarter (refer to page 14 for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or "GAAP").
"Our third quarter results compared favorably to our expectations and reflected more consistent execution across our businesses. We are preparing for a successful Amerigroup integration and have recently taken steps to better align business level leadership to execute on the growth opportunities before us," said John Cannon, interim president and chief executive officer.
"The third quarter reflected a combination of improved core operating performance, administrative expense management, and favorability in the capital management of the company. Our earnings were supported by strong adjusted operating cash flow in the quarter and sequential increases in medical claims reserves and days in claims payable," said Wayne DeVeydt, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Operating trends in the quarter increase our confidence in our full year 2012 outlook of $7.30 to $7.40 in adjusted EPS."
Medical enrollment was approximately 33.5 million members at September 30, 2012, a decrease of 862,000 members, or 2.5 percent, from approximately 34.4 million at September 30, 2011. Membership in the Local Group and National businesses declined by 694,000 and 315,000, respectively, as the Company repositioned product offerings in the New York small group market and adjusted its administrative fee structure for certain National Accounts in 2012. Enrollment was also impacted by economy-related in-group membership attrition and competitive situations in certain Local Group markets.
Membership:
The declines in Local Group and National were partially offset by membership growth in the Senior and State Sponsored businesses. Senior membership increased by 96,000, primarily due to the Company's geographic expansion into new Medicare Advantage service areas for 2012. State Sponsored enrollment increased by 42,000, due to growth in existing programs.
Operating revenue exceeded $15.1 billion in the third quarter of 2012 and was essentially stable compared with the prior year quarter. Premium revenue declined by $144.5 million, or 1.0 percent, as the impact of lower fully insured Local Group membership was partially offset by growth in the Senior business and premium rate increases designed to cover cost trends. Other revenue increased by $130.6 million, primarily due to the Company's acquisition of 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc. during the second quarter of 2012.
Operating Revenue:
The benefit expense ratio was 85.4 percent in the third quarter of 2012, an increase of 30 basis points from 85.1 percent in the third quarter of 2011. Consistent with the Company's expectation, the increase occurred in the Consumer reporting segment. Within that segment, the benefit expense ratio for Senior business increased due to lower risk score revenue in the current year quarter, and the ratio for State Sponsored business increased due to higher medical costs in California. The increase in the Consumer segment benefit expense ratio was partially offset by an improvement in the Commercial segment ratio.
Benefit Expense Ratio:
For the full year of 2012, the Company continues to expect that underlying Local Group medical cost trend will be in the range of 7.0 percent, plus or minus 50 basis points. Unit cost increases continue to be the primary driver of overall medical cost trend, while utilization moderated during the third quarter of 2012.
Medical Cost Trend:
Days in Claims Payable ("DCP") as of September 30, 2012, was 42.4 days, an increase of 1.6 days from 40.8 days at June 30, 2012. This was driven primarily by a sequential increase in medical claims reserves and claims payment seasonality, including the impact of fewer claims processing days in the third quarter.
Days in Claims Payable:
The SG&A expense ratio was 13.7 percent in the third quarter of 2012, a decrease of 30 basis points from 14.0 percent in the third quarter of 2011. The decrease reflected savings from the Company's ongoing efficiency initiatives and lower compensation expense in the current year quarter, partially offset by increased costs related to the integration and expansion of CareMore.
SG&A Expense Ratio:
The Company's effective income tax rate was 32.6 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared with 34.6 percent in the third quarter of 2011. The decline resulted primarily from the favorable settlement of certain prior year tax audits during the third quarter of 2012.
Effective Income Tax Rate:
 
For the first nine months of 2012, operating cash flow was approximately $2.0 billion, or 0.9 times net income. Third quarter 2012 operating cash flow totaled $240.2 million and was unfavorably impacted by the timing of the July monthly payment from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS"), which was received in the second quarter. Including this payment in the third quarter, adjusted operating cash flow would have been $951.9 million, or approximately 1.4 times net income (refer to page 15).
Operating Cash Flow:
Operating cash flow totaled $3.3 billion during the first nine months of 2011 and included 10 monthly payments from CMS. Excluding the October 2011 CMS payment, adjusted operating cash flow was $2.7 billion for the first nine months of 2011 (refer to page 15).
During the third quarter of 2012, the Company repurchased 11.3 million shares of its common stock for $655.3 million. The Company repurchased an additional 10.4 million shares for $634.3 million during October, bringing its year-to-date repurchase total for the first 10 months of 2012 to 39.1 million shares for approximately $2.5 billion. As of October 31, 2012, the Company had approximately $1.9 billion of Board-approved share repurchase authorization remaining.
Share Repurchase Program:
During the third quarter of 2012, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.2875 per share, representing a distribution of cash totaling $90.7 million. Cash dividend payments totaled $280.0 million for the first nine months of 2012. On November 6, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend to shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2012 of $0.2875 per share. The fourth quarter dividend is payable on December 21, 2012, to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 7, 2012.
Cash Dividend:
During the third quarter of 2012, the Company recorded net investment gains of $50.8 million pre-tax, consisting of net realized gains from the sale of securities totaling $54.6 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments totaling $3.8 million. In the third quarter of 2011, the Company recorded net investment gains of $72.0 million pre-tax, consisting of net realized gains from the sale of securities totaling $94.9 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments totaling $22.9 million.
Investment Portfolio & Capital Position:
As of September 30, 2012, the Company's net unrealized gain position in the investment portfolio was approximately $1.3 billion, consisting of net unrealized gains on fixed maturity and equity securities totaling $980.6 million and $341.0 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2012, cash and investments at the parent company totaled $4.9 billion, reflecting debt issuances during the third quarter in connection with the pending acquisition of Amerigroup Corporation.
 
WellPoint, Inc. has the following reportable segments: Commercial Business, which includes the Local Group, National, UniCare and Specialty Products lines of business (including 1-800 CONTACTS); Consumer Business, which includes the Individual, Senior and State Sponsored lines of business; and Other, which includes Comprehensive Health Solutions, FEP business, National Government Services, inter-segment sales and expense eliminations, and corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.
 
Operating gain in the Commercial segment was $818.6 million in the third quarter of 2012, an increase of $107.1 million, or 15.1 percent, from $711.5 million in the third quarter of 2011. The increase was driven by lower selling, general and administrative costs and an improvement in the benefit expense ratio for Local Group business, partially offset by the reduction in fully insured Local Group membership. Operating gain in the Specialty business also increased due to improved operating performance and the inclusion of 1-800 CONTACTS results in the current year quarter.
Commercial Business:
Operating gain in the Consumer segment was $184.7 million in the third quarter of 2012, a decrease of $60.5 million, or 24.7 percent, compared with $245.2 million in the third quarter of 2011. This was driven primarily by a decline in risk score revenue in the Company's Senior business.
Consumer Business:
Operating gain in the Other segment was $0.5 million in the third quarter of 2012, compared with $15.9 million in the third quarter of 2011. The decline reflected higher unallocated corporate expenses in the current year quarter.
Other:
 
Full Year 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Management will host a conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time ("EST") to discuss the company's third quarter earnings results and updated outlook. The conference call should be accessed at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call with the following numbers:
 
An access code is not required for today's conference call. The access code for the replay is 226537. The replay will be available from 11 a.m. EST today until the end of the day on November 21, 2012. The call will also be available through a live webcast at . A webcast replay will be available following the call.
www.wellpoint.com
 
 
About WellPoint, Inc.
At WellPoint, we believe there is an important connection between our members' health and well-beingand the value we bring our customers and shareholders. So each day we work to improve the health of our members and their communities. And, we can make a real difference since we have more than 33 million people in our branded health plans, and approximately 64 million people served through our subsidiaries. As an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, WellPoint serves members as the Blue Cross licensee for California; the Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as the Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties and as the Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, WellPoint's plans do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, or Empire Blue Cross (in the New York service areas). WellPoint also serves customers throughout the country as UniCare and in certain California, Arizona and Nevada markets through our CareMore subsidiary. Our 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc. subsidiary offers customers online sales of contact lenses, eyeglasses and other ocular products. Additional information about WellPoint is available at www.wellpoint.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has referenced "Adjusted Net Income" and "Adjusted Net Income Per Share," non-GAAP measures, in this document. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be alternatives to any measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Rather, these non-GAAP measures are intended to aid investors when comparing WellPoint, Inc.'s financial results among periods. A reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is presented below.
 
 
WellPoint, Inc. has referenced "Adjusted Operating Cash Flow" a non-GAAP measure, in this document. This non-GAAP measure is not intended to be an alternative to any measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Rather, this non-GAAP measure is intended to aid investors when comparing WellPoint, Inc.'s financial results among periods. A reconciliation of this measure to the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP is presented below.
 
 
WellPoint and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), including statements in this press release, in presentations, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. The projections referenced in this press release are forward-looking and they are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by PSLRA. Words such as "expect(s)", "feel(s)", "believe(s)", "will", "may", "anticipate(s)", "intend", "estimate", "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements include, but are not limited to, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include: those discussed and identified in the public filings that we and AMERIGROUP Corporation have made with the SEC; increased government participation in, or regulation or taxation of, health benefits and managed care operations, including, but not limited to, the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; trends in health care costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rates including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates; our ability to contract with providers consistent with past practices; our ability to consummate the acquisition of AMERIGROUP Corporation and our ability to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the AMERIGROUP Corporation and 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc. acquisitions within the expected timeframes or at all and to successfully integrate our operations; such integrations may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transactions may be lower than expected; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients and suppliers, may be greater than expected following the transactions; competitor pricing below market trends of increasing costs; reduced enrollment, as well as a negative change in our health care product mix; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon and funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation therein; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; litigation and investigations targeted at our industry and our ability to resolve litigation and investigations within estimates; medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to health care services provided by our subsidiaries; risks inherent in selling healthcare products in the consumer retail market; our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock due to the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other considerations; non-compliance by any party with the Express Scripts, Inc. pharmacy benefit management services agreement, which could result in financial penalties, our inability to meet customer demands, and sanctions imposed by governmental entities, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; events that result in negative publicity for us or the health benefits industry; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems and e-business organization and to maintain good relationships with third party vendors for information system resources; events that may negatively affect our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; intense competition to attract and retain
 
employees; unauthorized disclosure of member sensitive or confidential information; changes in the economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our investment portfolios and liquidity; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital and the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; general risks associated with mergers and acquisitions; various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations; future public health epidemics and catastrophes; and general economic downturns. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities law, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures in our SEC reports.
 


