Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Oil and Gas. Other Services. Canrig Drilling Technology Ltd., our drilling technologies subsidiary, manufactures top drives, which are installed on both onshore and offshore drilling rigs. Our top drives are marketed throughout the world. During the last three years, approximately 72% of our top drive sales were made to other Nabors companies. We also rent top drives and provide top drive installation, repair and maintenance services to our customers. Canrig Drilling Technology Canada Ltd., our newly acquired drilling technology subsidiary, manufactures catwalks and wrenches which are installed on both onshore and offshore drilling rigs. During the first seven months of operations, approximately 56% of the equipment sales were made to other Nabors companies. Epoch Well Services, Inc., our well services subsidiary, offers rig instrumentation equipment, including sensors, proprietary RIGWATCH software and computerized equipment that monitors the real time performance of a rig. In addition, Epoch specializes in daily reporting software for drilling operations, making this data available through the internet via mywells.com. Epoch also provides mudlogging services. Ryan Energy Technologies, Inc., another one of our subsidiaries, manufactures and sells directional drilling and rig instrumentation and data collection services to oil and gas exploration and service companies. Nabors has a 50% interest in Peak Oilfield Services Company, a general partnership with a subsidiary of Cook Inlet Region, Inc., a leading Alaskan native corporation. Peak Oilfield Services provides heavy 4 Table of Contents equipment to move drilling rigs, water, other fluids and construction materials, primarily on Alaskas North Slope and in the Cook Inlet region. The partnership also provides construction and maintenance for ice roads, pads, facilities, equipment, drill sites and pipelines. Nabors also has a 50% interest in Alaska Interstate Construction, a limited liability company whose other primary partner is Cook Inlet Region, Inc. Alaska Interstate Construction is a general contractor involved in the construction of roads, bridges, dams, drill sites and other facility sites, as well as providing mining support in Alaska. Revenues are derived from services to companies engaged in mining and public works. Our subsidiary, Peak USA Energy Services, Ltd., provides hauling and maintenance services for customers in the U.S. Lower 48 states. Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. was formed through an acquisition completed in the first quarter of 2006, and leases aircraft used for logistics services for onshore drilling and well servicing operations in Canada using helicopters and fixed winged aircraft. We time charter a fleet of 29 offshore support vessels, including one crew boat, which operate in the Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad and the Middle East and provide marine transportation of drilling materials, supplies and crews for offshore rig operations and support for other offshore facilities. The supply vessels are used as freight carrying vessels for bringing drill pipe, tubing, casing, drilling mud and other equipment to drilling rigs and production platforms. Our Employees. As of December 31, 2006, Nabors employed approximately 25,218 persons, of whom approximately 3,204 were employed by unconsolidated affiliates. We believe our relationship with our employees generally is good. Certain rig employees in Argentina and Australia are represented by collective bargaining units. Seasonality. Our Canadian and Alaskan drilling and workover operations are subject to seasonal variations as a result of weather conditions and generally experience reduced levels of activity and financial results during the second calendar quarter of each year. Seasonality does not have a material impact on the remaining portions of our business. Our overall financial results reflect the seasonal variations experienced in our Canadian and Alaskan operations. Research and Development. Research and development constitutes a growing part of our overall business. The effective use of technology is critical to the maintenance of our competitive position within the drilling industry. As a result of the importance of technology to our business, we expect to continue to develop technology internally or to acquire technology through strategic acquisitions. Industry/Competitive Conditions. To a large degree, Nabors businesses depend on the level of capital spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. A sustained increase or decrease in the price of natural gas or oil could have a material impact on exploration, development and production activities by our customers and could also materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors Fluctuations in oil and gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and Nabors revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our industry remains competitive. Historically, the number of rigs has exceeded demand in many of our markets, resulting in strong price competition. More recently, as a result of improved demand for drilling services driven by a sustained high level of commodity prices, supply and demand have been in balance in most of our markets, with demand actually exceeding supply in some of our markets. This economic reality has resulted in an increase in rates being charged for rigs across our North American, Offshore and International markets. Furthermore, over the last three years, the dramatic increase in rates along with our customers willingness to enter into firm three year commitments has resulted in our building of new rigs in significant quantities for the first time in over 20 years. However, as many existing rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and many of the total available contracts are currently awarded on a bid basis, competition based on price for both existing and new rigs still exists across all of our markets. The land drilling, workover and well servicing market is generally more competitive than the offshore market due to the larger number of rigs and market participants. In all of our geographic market areas, we believe price and availability and condition of equipment are the most significant factors in determining which drilling contractor is awarded a job. Other factors include the availability of trained personnel possessing the required specialized skills; the overall quality of service and safety record; and domestically, the 5 Table of Contents ability to offer ancillary services. Increasingly, as the market requires additional rigs and as a result of new build capacity, the ability to deliver rigs within certain timeframes is becoming a competitive factor. In international markets, experience in operating in certain environments and customer alliances, also have been factors in the selection of Nabors. Certain competitors are present in more than one of Nabors operating regions, although no one competitor operates in all of these areas. In the U.S. Lower 48 states, there are several hundred competitors with national, regional or local rig operations. In domestic land workover and well servicing, we compete with Key Energy Services, Inc. and with numerous other competitors having smaller regional or local rig operations. In Canada and offshore, Nabors competes with many firms of varying size, several of which have more significant operations in those areas than Nabors. Internationally, Nabors competes directly with various contractors at each location where it operates. Nabors believes that the market for land drilling, workover and well servicing contracts will continue to be competitive for the foreseeable future. Our other operating segments represent a relatively smaller part of our business, and we have numerous competitors in each area. Our Canrig subsidiary is one of the four major manufacturers of top drives. Its largest competitors are National Oilwell Varco, Tesco and MH Pyramid. EPOCHs largest competitors in the manufacture of rig instrumentation systems are Pason and National Oilwell Varcos Totco subsidiary. Mudlogging services are provided by a number of entities that serve the oil and gas industry on a regional basis. EPOCH competes for mudlogging customers with Baker Hughes, Sperry Sun, Diversified, and Stratagraph in the Gulf Coast region, California and Alaska. In the U.S. Lower 48 states, there are hundreds of rig transportation companies, and there are at least three or four that compete with Peak USA in each of its operating regions. In Alaska, Peak Oilfield Services principally competes with Alaska Petroleum Contractors for road, pad and pipeline maintenance, and is one of many drill site and road construction companies, the largest of which is VECO Corporation, and Alaska Interstate Construction principally competes with Wilder Construction Company and Cruz Construction Company for the construction of roads, bridges, dams, drill sites and other facility sites. Our Business Strategy. Since 1987, with the installation of our current management team, Nabors has adhered to a consistent strategy aimed at positioning our company to grow and prosper in good times and to mitigate adverse effects during periods of poor market conditions. We have maintained a financial posture that allows us to capitalize on market weakness and strength by adding to our business base, thereby enhancing our upside potential. The principal elements of our strategy have been to: Maintain flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Maintain a conservative and flexible balance sheet. Build cost effectively a base of premium assets. Build and maintain low operating costs through economies of scale. Develop and maintain long term, mutually attractive relationships with key customers and vendors. Build a diverse business in long term, sustainable and worthwhile geographic markets. Recognize and seize opportunities as they arise. Continually improve safety, quality and efficiency. Implement leading edge technology where cost effective to do so. Our business strategy is designed to allow us to grow and remain profitable in any market environment. The major developments in our business in the past two years illustrate our implementation of this strategy and its continuing success. Specifically, we have taken advantage of the robust rig market to obtain a high volume of contracts for newly constructed rigs. A large proportion of these rigs are subject to long term contracts with creditworthy customers with the most significant impact occurring in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, International and Canadian operations. This will not only expand our operations with the latest state of the art rigs, which should better weather downturns in market activity, but eventually replace the oldest least capable rigs in our existing fleet. Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have grown from a land drilling business centered in the U.S. Lower 48 states, Canada and Alaska to an international business with operations on land and offshore in many of the major oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world. At the beginning of 1990, our fleet consisted of 44 land drilling rigs in Canada, Alaska and in various international markets. Today, Nabors worldwide fleet consists of approximately 615 land drilling rigs, approximately 610 domestic and 190 international land workover and well servicing rigs, 48 offshore platform rigs, 19 jack up units, five barge rigs and a large component of trucks and fluid hauling vehicles. This growth was fueled in part by strategic acquisitions. Although Nabors continues to examine opportunities, there can be no assurance that attractive rigs or other acquisition opportunities will 6 Table of Contents continue to be available, that the pricing will be economical or that we will be successful in making such acquisitions in the future. On January 3, 2006, we completed an acquisition of 1183011 Alberta Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Airborne Energy Solutions Ltd., through the purchase of all common shares outstanding for cash for a total purchase price of Cdn. $41.7 million (U.S. $35.8 million). In addition, we assumed debt, net of working capital, totaling approximately Cdn. $10.0 million (U.S. $8.6 million). Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. (formerly 1183011 Alberta Ltd.) owns 42 helicopters and fixed wing aircraft and owns and operates a fleet of heliportable well service equipment. On May 31, 2006, we completed an acquisition of Pragma Drilling Equipment Ltd.s business, which manufactures catwalks, iron roughnecks and other related oilfield equipment, through an asset purchase consisting primarily of intellectual property for a total purchase price of Cdn. $36.5 million (U.S. $33.1 million). Additional cash purchase consideration, up to a maximum of Cdn. $12.0 million (U.S. $10.3 million), will be due if certain specified financial performance targets are achieved over a one year period commencing on June 30, 2006. From time to time, we may sell a subsidiary or group of assets outside of our core markets or business, if it is economically advantageous for us to do so. New Rig Build Program. Since early 2005, we have expanded our capital expenditure programs and are building new rigs in significant quantities for the first time in over 20 years. The majority of these expenditures are for new state of the art drilling rigs, nearly all of which are secured by term contracts that provide surety of cash flow to pay for a substantial portion of the associated capital investment. In conjunction with these programs, we have ordered 134 new drilling rigs and received 53 of these prior to February 7, 2007, of which 49 land rigs and 4 offshore rigs are currently working. As of February 7, 2007, we had signed contracts or letters of intent for 117 of these rigs; 80 for our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling operations, 6 for our Canadian drilling operations, 2 for our Alaskan operations, 2 for our U.S. Offshore operations and 27 for our International operations. Additionally, our Canadian drilling unit is adding 13 coiled tubing/stem drilling rigs to its fleet; 6 of which are already working and 7 of which, we expect to be delivered during 2007 and 2008. Additionally, our well servicing unit expects to add approximately 200 newly built workover and well servicing rigs to meet growing demand for their services. Forty of these rigs have been delivered as of February 7, 2007 and the balance is expected to be in service by the end of 2008. Environmental Compliance. Nabors does not presently anticipate that compliance with currently applicable environmental regulations and controls will significantly change its competitive position, capital spending or earnings during 2007. Nabors believes it is in material compliance with applicable environmental rules and regulations, and the cost of such compliance is not material to the business or financial condition of Nabors. For a more detailed description of the environmental laws and regulations applicable to Nabors operations, see below under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect Nabors results of operations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10 K, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating Nabors. Fluctuations in oil and gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and our revenues, cash flows and profitability Our operations are materially dependent upon the level of activity in oil and gas exploration and production. Both short term and long term trends in oil and gas prices affect the level of such activity. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration and production activity can be volatile. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. Weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand, the availability of pipeline capacity, and other factors beyond our control may also affect the supply of and demand for oil and gas. We believe that any prolonged reduction in oil and gas prices would depress the level of exploration and production activity. This would likely result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Lower oil and gas prices could also cause our 7 Table of Contents customers to seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor our drilling contracts; affect the fair market value of our rig fleet which in turn could trigger a write down for accounting purposes; affect our ability to retain skilled rig personnel; and affect our ability to obtain access to capital to finance and grow our business. There can be no assurances as to the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and gas and oilfield services industries. We operate in a highly competitive industry with excess drilling capacity, which may adversely affect our results of operations The oilfield services industry in which we operate is very competitive. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Many drilling, workover and well servicing rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and provided market conditions warrant, which may result in an oversupply of rigs in an area. In many markets in which we operate, the number of rigs available for use exceeds the demand for rigs, resulting in price competition. Most drilling and workover contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. The land drilling market generally is more competitive than the offshore drilling market because there are larger numbers of rigs and competitors. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, workover and well servicing industries, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental damage and damage to the property of others. Our offshore operations are also subject to the hazards of marine operations including capsizing, grounding, collision, damage from hurricanes and heavy weather or sea conditions and unsound ocean bottom conditions. In addition, our international operations are subject to risks of war, civil disturbances or other political events. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we seek to obtain indemnification from our customers by contract for certain of these risks. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such risks to customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we seek protection through insurance. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that it will be adequate or that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitive. It is possible that we will face continued upward pressure in our upcoming insurance renewals and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or more expensive than it has been in the past. Moreover, our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a deductible. We may choose to increase the levels of deductibles (and thus assume a greater degree of risk) from time to time in order to minimize the overall cost to the Company. The profitability of our international operations could be adversely affected by war, civil disturbance or political or economic turmoil We derive a significant portion of our business from international markets, including major operations in Canada, the Middle East, the Far East and South and Central America. These operations are subject to various risks, including the risk of war, civil disturbances and governmental activities that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. In certain countries, our operations may be subject to the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange controls. In the international markets in which we operate, we are subject to various laws and regulations that govern the operation and taxation of our business and the import and export of our equipment from country to country, the imposition, application and interpretation of which can prove to be uncertain. Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations The drilling of oil and gas wells is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations. Our cost of compliance with these laws and regulations may be substantial. For example, federal law imposes a variety of regulations on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. As an 8 Table of Contents owner and operator of onshore and offshore rigs and transportation equipment, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under federal law. In addition, our well servicing, workover and production services operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks and the use of underground injection wells. We generally require customers to contractually assume responsibility for compliance with environmental regulations. However, we are not always successful in allocating to customers all of these risks nor is there any assurance that the customer will be financially able to bear those risks assumed. We employ personnel responsible for monitoring environmental compliance and arranging for remedial actions that may be required from time to time and also use outside experts to advise on and assist with our environmental compliance efforts. Liabilities are recorded when the need for environmental assessments and or remedial efforts become known or probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent than in the past and are expected to continue to become more so. Violation of environmental laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial obligations, and in some cases injunctive relief. Such violations could also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property damage, and other costs and claims. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, and related state laws and regulations, liability can be imposed jointly on the entire group of responsible parties or separately on any one of the responsible parties, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. Changes in federal and state environmental regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on us. For example, legislation has been proposed from time to time in Congress which would reclassify certain oil and natural gas production wastes as hazardous wastes, which would make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent handling, disposal and clean up requirements. If enacted, such legislation could dramatically increase operating costs for oil and natural gas companies and could reduce the market for our services by making many wells and or oilfields uneconomical to operate. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, contains provisions specifying responsibility for removal costs and damages resulting from discharges of oil into navigable waters or onto the adjoining shorelines. In addition, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore oil and gas production sites. Because our offshore support vessel operations rely on offshore oil and gas exploration and production, if the government were to exercise its authority under this law to restrict the availability of offshore oil and gas leases, such an action could have a material adverse effect on our offshore support vessel operations. Recent legislation could curtail our ability to time charter vessels in U.S. coastwise trade Our Sea Mar division time charters supply vessels to offshore operators in U.S. waters. The vessels are owned by one of our financing company subsidiaries, but are operated and managed by a U.S. citizen controlled company pursuant to long term bareboat charters. As a result of recent legislation, beginning in August 2007, Sea Mar will no longer be able to use this arrangement to qualify vessels for employment in the U.S. coastwise trade. Accordingly, we will be required to restructure the arrangement, redeploy the vessels outside the U.S., or sell the vessels by no later than such time. As of December 31, 2006, the net assets of Sea Mar totaled approximately $154.4 million. During 2006 Sea Mar had income before income taxes totaling $43.3 million. As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. In order to meet our financial needs, we rely exclusively on repayments of interest and principal on intercompany loans made by us to our operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from such subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that our operating subsidiaries will generate sufficient net income to pay upstream dividends or cash flow to make payments of interest and principal to us in respect of their intercompany loans. In addition, from time to time, our operating subsidiaries 9 Table of Contents may enter into financing arrangements which may contractually restrict or prohibit such upstream payments to us. There may also be adverse tax consequences associated with making dividend payments upstream. We do not currently intend to pay dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on our common shares since 1982. Nabors does not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on its common shares. However, we note that there have been recent positive industry trends and changes in tax law providing more favorable treatment of dividends. As a result, we can give no assurance that we will not reevaluate our position on dividends in the future. Because our option, warrant and convertible securities holders have a considerable number of common shares available for issuance and resale, significant issuances or resales in the future may adversely affect the market price of our common shares As of February 22, 2007, we had 800,000,000 authorized common shares, of which 278,315,153 shares were outstanding. In addition, 39,948,230 common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to option and employee benefit plans, and 99,156,387 shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of outstanding zero coupon convertible debentures and zero coupon senior exchangeable notes. In addition, up to 168,738 of our common shares could be issuable on exchange of the shares of Nabors Exchangeco (Canada) Inc. We also may sell up to $700 million of securities of various types in connection with a shelf registration statement declared effective on January 16, 2003 by the SEC. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, whether directly by us or resulting from the exercise of warrants or options (and, where applicable, sales pursuant to Rule 144) or the conversion into common shares, or repurchase of debentures and notes using common shares, would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Provisions of our organizational documents may deter a change of control transaction and decrease the likelihood of a shareholder receiving a change of control premium Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three year term. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue a significant amount of common shares and up to 25,000,000 preferred shares and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of the preferred shares, in each case without further vote or action by the holders of the common shares. Although we have no present plans to issue preferred shares, the classified board and our boards ability to issue additional preferred shares may discourage, delay or prevent changes in control of Nabors that are not supported by our board, thereby possibly preventing certain of our shareholders from realizing a possible premium on their shares. In addition, the requirement in the indenture for our $2.75 billion senior exchangeable notes due 2011 and Series B of our $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes due 2023 to pay a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the exchange rate in certain circumstances could have the effect of making a change in control of Nabors more expensive. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding As a result of the completion of the private placement of $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 during the second quarter of 2006, and the redemption of 93% or $769.8 million of our $1.2 billion zero coupon senior convertible debentures due 2021 during the first quarter of 2006 (resulting in a remaining outstanding balance for our zero coupon senior convertible debentures of approximately $82.8 million as of December 31, 2006), we have approximately $4.0 billion in debt outstanding, resulting in a gross funded debt to capital ratio of 0.50:1 and a net funded debt to capital ratio of 0.37:1 at December 31, 2006. The gross funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing funded debt by funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. The net funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing net funded debt by net funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Net funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt reduced by the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short term and long term investments. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. Both of these ratios are methods for calculating the amount of leverage a company has in relation to its capital. As a result of these transactions, we have increased our indebtedness by approximately $2.0 billion during 2006, which could adversely affect our senior unsecured debt rating, the ratings of our outstanding indebtedness and the value of our notes. Our ability to perform under new contracts and to grow our business as forecasted depends to a substantial degree on timely delivery of rigs and equipment from our suppliers 10 Table of Contents The forecasted growth in the operating revenues and net income for our Contract Drilling subsidiaries depends to a substantial degree on the timely delivery of rigs and equipment from our suppliers as part of our recently expanded capital programs. We can give no assurances that our suppliers will meet expected delivery schedules for delivery of these new rigs and equipment. Delays in the delivery of new rigs and equipment could cause us to fail to meet our operating forecasts and could subject us to late delivery penalties under contracts with our customers. We may have additional tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. It is possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could have an impact on our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings as a result of our corporate reorganization, depending on any responsive action taken by us. On May 31, 2006, Nabors International Finance Inc. (NIFI), a wholly owned U.S. subsidiary of Nabors, received from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) two Notices of Proposed Adjustment (NOPA) in connection with an audit of NIFI for tax years 2002 and 2003. One NOPA proposes to deny a deduction of $85.1 million in interest expense in our 2002 tax year relating to intercompany indebtedness incurred in connection with our inversion transaction in June 2002 whereby we were reorganized as a Bermuda company. The second NOPA proposes to deny a deduction of $207.6 million in the same item of interest expense in our 2003 tax year. On August 9, 2006, NIFI received a Revenue Agent Report, asserting the adjustments relating to the two NOPAs referred to above. On September 18, 2006, NIFI filed a protest with the IRS related to the two adjustments and we intend to contest the IRS position vigorously. We previously had obtained advice from our tax advisors that the deduction of such amounts was appropriate and more recently that the position of the IRS lacks merit. At the end of 2003 the Company paid off approximately one half of the intercompany indebtedness incurred in connection with the inversion. It is likely that the IRS will propose the disallowance of these deductions upon audit of NIFIs 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years. We currently have not recorded any reserves for such proposed adjustments. On September 14, 2006, Nabors Drilling International Limited (NDIL), a wholly owned Bermuda subsidiary of Nabors, received a Notice of Assessment (the Notice) from the Mexican Servicio de Administracion Tributaria (the SAT) in connection with the audit of NDILs Mexican branch for tax year 2003. The Notice proposes to deny a depreciation expense deduction that relates to drilling rigs operating in Mexico in 2003, as well as a deduction for payments made to an affiliated company for the provision of labor services in Mexico. The amount assessed by the SAT is approximately $19.8 million (including interest and penalties). Nabors and its tax advisors previously concluded that the deduction of said amounts was appropriate and more recently that the position of the SAT lacks merit. Nabors has not recorded any reserves for the adjustments proposed by the SAT. NDILs Mexican branch took similar deductions for depreciation and labor expenses in 2004, 2005 and 2006. It is likely that the SAT will propose the disallowance of these deductions upon audit of NDILs Mexican branchs 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years. Proposed tax legislation could mitigate or eliminate the benefits of our 2002 reorganization as a Bermuda company Various bills have been introduced in Congress which could reduce or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization as a Bermuda company. Legislation enacted by Congress in 2004 provides that a corporation that reorganized in a foreign jurisdiction on or after March 4, 2003 shall be treated as a domestic corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Nabors reorganization was completed June 24, 2002. The Senate recently passed a bill that would, among other things, beginning January 1, 2007, make the 2004 legislation applicable to certain companies that completed such reorganizations on or after March 20, 2002. The House version of this bill that does not contain such provisions. Because we cannot predict whether legislation will ultimately be adopted, no assurance can be given that the tax benefits associated with our reorganization will ultimately accrue to the benefit of the Company and its shareholders. It is possible that future changes to the tax laws (including tax treaties) could have an impact on our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings resulting from our reorganization. Legal proceedings could affect our financial condition and results of operations We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings which include employment, tort, intellectual property and other claims, including most recently, a purported shareholder derivative action related to our stock option grants and related practices, procedures and accounting. We also are subject to complaints or allegations from former, current or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment related laws. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are the subject of an SEC informal inquiry related to our stock option granting practices and procedures, the outcome of which could adversely affect our business. In a letter dated December 28, 2006, the SEC staff advised us that it had commenced an informal inquiry regarding our stock option grants and related practices, procedures and accounting. We are cooperating with this inquiry. A more detailed discussion of this matter is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. It is not possible at this early stage to predict the likely outcome of this inquiry or whether the SEC staff will take a position contrary to the Companys position, but it is possible the ultimate result of the inquiry could have an adverse effect on us, our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Many of the international drilling rigs and certain of the Alaska rigs in our fleet are supported by mobile camps which house the drilling crews and a significant inventory of spare parts and supplies. In addition, we own various trucks, forklifts, cranes, earth moving and other construction and transportation equipment and own various helicopters, fixed wing aircraft and heliportable well service equipment, which are used to support drilling and logistics operations. Nabors and its subsidiaries own or lease executive and administrative office space in Hamilton, Bermuda (principal executive office); Houston, Texas; Anchorage, Alaska; Harvey, Houma, New Iberia and Lafayette, Louisiana; Bakersfield, California; Magnolia, Texas; Calgary, Red Deer and Nisku, Alberta, Canada; Sanaa, Yemen; Dubai, U.A.E.; Dhahran, Saudi Arabia; Anaco, Venezuela; and Luanda, Angola. We also own or lease a number of facilities and storage yards used in support of operations in each of our geographic markets. Nabors and its subsidiaries own certain mineral interests in connection with their investing and operating activities. Nabors does not consider these properties to be material to its overall operations. Additional information about our properties can be found in Notes 2 and 6 (each, under the caption Property, Plant and Equipment) and 14 (under the caption Operating Leases) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. below. The revenues and property, plant and equipment by geographic area for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, can be found in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. below. A description of our rig fleet is included under the caption Introduction in Part I, Item 1. Business. Nabors management believes that our existing equipment and facilities and our planned expansion of our equipment and facilities through our capital expenditure programs currently in process are adequate to support our current level of operations as well as an expansion of drilling operations in those geographical areas where we may expand. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Nabors and its subsidiaries are defendants or otherwise involved in a number of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business. We estimate the range of our liability related to pending litigation when we believe the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. When a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the lawsuits or claims. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and claims and revise our estimates. Due to uncertainties related to the resolution of lawsuits and claims, the ultimate outcome may differ from our estimates. In the opinion of management and based on liability accruals provided, our ultimate exposure with respect to these pending lawsuits and claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or cash flows, although they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a particular reporting period. During the quarter ended June 30, 2006, we settled a lawsuit involving wage and hour claims relating primarily to meal periods and travel time of current and former rig based employees in our California well servicing business. Those claims were heard by an arbitrator during the fourth quarter of 2005. On February 6, 2006, we received an interim award against us in the amount of $25.6 million (plus attorneys fees and costs), which was accrued for in our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a result of subsequent proceedings and the settlement, the final award was $24.3 million, which was paid during May 2006. Additionally, on December 22, 2005, we received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorneys Office in Anchorage, Alaska, seeking documents and information relating to an alleged spill, discharge, overflow or cleanup of drilling mud or sludge involving one of our rigs during March 2003. We are cooperating with the authorities in this matter. 12 Table of Contents The Company disclosed in a press release issued on December 27, 2006, that it was initiating a voluntary further review of its option granting practices. The Company voluntarily contacted the SEC on December 27, 2006, and informed them of the review. The staff of the SEC informed the Company in a letter dated December 28, 2006, that it had initiated an informal inquiry into the Companys option award practices. The Company has been and will continue to cooperate fully with the SEC inquiry. The voluntary review, which is now complete, was overseen by a committee consisting of all of the Companys non employee directors. The committee engaged outside legal counsel, which in turn engaged a forensic accounting expert to assist with the review (the Review Team). The scope of the review included the granting of and accounting for certain employee equity awards to both the senior executives of the Company and other employees from 1988 through 2006. The Review Team made no finding of fraud or intentional wrongdoing. The Review Team identified certain employee stock option awards for which the Company had historically used an incorrect measurement date in determining the amount of compensation expense to be recognized for such employee stock option awards. The Review Team determined that the use of these incorrect measurement dates resulted primarily from incomplete granting actions as of the previously used measurement dates. With respect to awards made to certain senior executives, the Review Team found that the appropriate measurement date for certain awards made on January 4, 1991 should have been March 5, 1991; the appropriate measurement date for certain December 4, 1995 awards should have been January 8, 1996; the appropriate measurement date for certain other December 4, 1995 awards should have been January 18, 1996; the appropriate measurement date for certain December 12, 1996 awards should have been December 13, 1996; and the appropriate measurement date for certain July 22, 1997 awards should have been August 5, 1997. The aggregate effect of these measurement date differences results in additional compensation expense which should have been recognized in the amount of $17.8 million over the vesting period of the respective options. With respect to certain annual and other incentive awards made to other employees, the Review Team found that there were numerous instances where changes were made to awards following the date of the meeting of the Compensation Committee. In numerous instances, there was insufficient or inconclusive documentation to determine the date on which awards made to those employees became final and were no longer subject to change. Accordingly, unless documentation demonstrated that a different measurement date was appropriate, the Company used the date on which annual bonuses were paid to employees as the revised measurement date for accounting purposes because such date would represent a date on which the Company could conclude awards to employees would have been finalized. The aggregate effect of these measurement date differences results in additional compensation expense which should have been recognized in the amount of $33.8 million over the vesting period of the respective options or restricted stock. The Company has notified the Internal Revenue Service of its intent to participate in the program set forth in Announcement 2007 18, Compliance Resolution Program for Employees Other than Corporate Insiders for Additional 2006 Taxes Arising Under 409A due to the Exercise of Stock Rights. The cost to the Company for participation in this compliance program will be approximately $3.9 million and will be recorded as an expense during the first quarter of 2007. The aggregate impact of the additional compensation expense, recorded as general and administrative expense, related to the new measurement dates was $51.6 million on a pre tax basis, $38.3 million net of tax, or $.13 per diluted share, which was recorded as a non cash charge during the fourth quarter of 2006. The Company has determined that no restatement of its historical financial statements is necessary, because the effects of the revised measurement dates for the awards granted would not be material in any fiscal year. If a stock based compensation charge had been taken as a result of the revised measurement dates, the net income of the Company for fiscal years 1991 through 2006 would have been reduced by $38.3 million in total. There would be no impact on revenue or cash flow from operations as a result of using the revised measurement dates. The impact on net income in individual fiscal years would have been as follows: fiscal 1991 ($.7 million); fiscal 1992 ($1.0 million); fiscal 1993 ($1.0 million); fiscal 1994 ($1.0 million); fiscal 1995 ($.3 million); fiscal 1996 ($2.1 million); fiscal 1997 (period ending September 30) ($9.5 million); fiscal 1997 (three month period ending December 31) ($.3 million); fiscal 1998 ($1.4 million); fiscal 1999 ($1.9 million); fiscal 2000 ($2.7 million); fiscal 2001 ($2.0 million); fiscal 2002 ($4.0 million); fiscal 2003 ($3.8 million); fiscal 2004 ($2.9 million); fiscal 2005 ($3.0 million); and fiscal 2006 ($.7 million). On February 6, 2007, a purported shareholder derivative action entitled Kenneth H. Karstedt v. Eugene M. Isenberg, et al was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas against the Companys officers and directors, and against the Company as a nominal defendant. The complaint alleges that stock options were priced retroactively and were improperly accounted for, and alleges various causes of action based on that assertion. The complaint seeks, among other things, payment by the defendants to the Company of damages allegedly suffered by it and disgorgement of profits. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph illustrates comparisons of five year cumulative total returns among Nabors Industries Ltd., the SP 500 Index and the Dow Jones Oil Equipment and Services Index. Total return assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2001 in shares of Nabors Industries Ltd., the SP 500 Index, and the Dow Jones Oil Equipment and Services Index. It also assumes reinvestment of dividends and is calculated at the end of each calendar year, December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2006. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Nabors Industries Ltd. 103 121 149 221 173 SP 500 Index 78 100 111 117 135 Dow Jones Oil Equipment and Services Index 92 106 143 217 246 I. Market and Share Prices. Our common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NBR. At December 31, 2006, there were approximately 2,015 shareholders of record. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common shares since 1982. Nabors does not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on its common shares. However, we note that there have been recent positive industry trends and changes in tax law providing more favorable treatment of dividends. As a result, we can give no assurance that we will not reevaluate our position on dividends in the future. On December 13, 2005, our Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of our common shares to be effectuated in the form of a stock dividend. The stock dividend was distributed on April 17, 2006 to shareholders of record on March 31, 2006. For all balance sheets presented, capital in excess of par value was reduced by $.2 million and common shares were increased by $.2 million. 14 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the reported high and low sales prices of our common shares as reported on the American Stock Exchange (through November 2, 2005) and the New York Stock Exchange (from November 3, 2005 through December 31, 2006) for the periods indicated. Share Price Calendar Year High Low 2005 First quarter $ 30.21 $ 23.10 Second quarter 31.03 25.38 Third quarter 36.95 29.99 Fourth quarter 39.94 29.80 2006 First quarter 41.35 31.36 Second quarter 40.71 29.75 Third quarter 36.04 28.35 Fourth quarter 34.62 27.26 The following table provides information relating to Nabors repurchase of common shares during the fourth quarter of 2006: Approximate Dollar Total Number of Value of Shares Shares Purchased as that May Yet Be Part of Publicly Purchased Under the Total Number of Average Price Paid Announced Plans or Plans or Period Shares Purchased per Share Programs Programs(1) (In thousands, except per share prices) October 1 October 31, 2006 99 $ 29.44 99 $ 406,300 (1) In July 2006 our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to $500 million of our common shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. This program supersedes and cancels our previous share repurchase program. Through December 31, 2006, approximately $93.7 million of our common shares had been repurchased under this program. As of December 31, 2006, we had $406.3 million of shares that still may be purchased under the July 2006 share repurchase program. No common shares were repurchased during November or December 2006. See Part III, Item 12. for a description of securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. II. Dividend Policy. See Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors We do not currently intend to pay dividends. III. Shareholder Matters. Bermuda has exchange controls which apply to residents in respect of the Bermudian dollar. As an exempt company, Nabors is considered to be nonresident for such controls; consequently, there are no Bermuda governmental restrictions on the Companys ability to make transfers and carry out transactions in all other currencies, including currency of the United States. There is no reciprocal tax treaty between Bermuda and the United States regarding withholding taxes. Under existing Bermuda law, there is no Bermuda income or withholding tax on dividends, if any, paid by Nabors to its shareholders. Furthermore, no Bermuda tax or other levy is payable on the sale or other transfer (including by gift or on the death of the shareholder) of Nabors common shares (other than by shareholders resident in Bermuda). ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 15 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, Operating Data (1) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except per share amounts and ratio data) Revenues and other income: Operating revenues $ 4,820,162 $ 3,459,908 $ 2,394,031 $ 1,880,003 $ 1,466,443 Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates 20,545 5,671 4,057 10,183 14,775 Investment income 102,007 85,430 50,064 33,813 36,961 Total revenues and other income 4,942,714 3,551,009 2,448,152 1,923,999 1,518,179 Costs and other deductions: Direct costs 2,569,800 1,997,267 1,572,649 1,276,953 973,910 General and administrative expenses 420,854 249,973 195,388 165,403 141,895 Depreciation and amortization 371,127 291,638 254,939 226,528 187,665 Depletion 38,580 46,894 45,460 8,599 7,700 Interest expense 46,561 44,847 48,507 70,740 67,068 Losses (gains) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other expense (income), net 24,873 46,440 (4,629 ) 1,153 (833 ) Total costs and other deductions 3,471,795 2,677,059 2,112,314 1,749,376 1,377,405 Income before income taxes 1,470,919 873,950 335,838 174,623 140,774 Income tax expense (benefit) 450,183 225,255 33,381 (17,605 ) 19,285 Net income $ 1,020,736 $ 648,695 $ 302,457 $ 192,228 $ 121,489 Earnings per share: Basic $ 3.52 $ 2.08 $ 1.02 $ .66 $ .42 Diluted $ 3.40 $ 2.00 $ .96 $ .62 $ .40 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding: Basic 290,241 312,134 297,872 292,989 287,310 Diluted 299,827 324,378 328,060 313,794 299,993 Capital expenditures and acquisitions of businesses (2) $ 1,997,971 $ 1,003,269 $ 544,429 $ 353,138 $ 702,843 Interest coverage ratio (3) 39.2:1 26.1 : 1 13.1 : 1 6.3 : 1 5.5 : 1 As of December 31, Balance Sheet Data (1) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except ratio data) Cash and cash equivalents, and short term and long term investments $ 1,653,285 $ 1,646,327 $ 1,411,047 $ 1,579,090 $ 1,345,799 Working capital 1,650,496 1,264,852 821,120 1,529,691 1,077,602 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,410,101 3,886,924 3,275,495 2,990,792 2,801,067 Total assets 9,142,303 7,230,407 5,862,609 5,602,692 5,063,872 Long term debt 4,004,074 1,251,751 1,201,686 1,985,553 1,614,656 Shareholders equity $ 3,536,653 $ 3,758,140 $ 2,929,393 $ 2,490,275 $ 2,158,455 Funded debt to capital ratio: Gross (4) 0.50:1 0.32 : 1 0.38 : 1 0.45 : 1 0.46 : 1 Net (5) 0.37:1 0.08 : 1 0.15 : 1 0.20 : 1 0.23 : 1 (1) Our acquisitions results of operations and financial position have been included beginning on the respective dates of acquisition and include Pragma Drilling Equipment Ltd. assets (May 2006), 1183011 Alberta Ltd. (January 2006), Sunset Well Service, Inc. (August 2005), Alexander Drilling, Inc. assets (June 2005), Phillips Trucking, Inc. assets (June 2005), Rocky Mountain Oil Tools, Inc. assets (March 2005), Ryan Energy Technologies, Inc. (October 2002) and Enserco Energy Service Company Inc. (April 2002). (2) Represents capital expenditures and the portion of the purchase price of acquisitions allocated to fixed assets and goodwill based on their fair market value. (3) The interest coverage ratio is computed by calculating the sum of income before income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense less investment income and then dividing by interest expense. This ratio is a method for calculating the amount of operating cash flows available to cover interest expense. 16 Table of Contents (4) The gross funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing funded debt by funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. (5) The net funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing net funded debt by net funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Net funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt reduced by the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short term and long term investments. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results of our operations and our financial condition. This information is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. Nabors is the largest land drilling contractor in the world. We conduct oil, gas and geothermal land drilling operations in the U.S. Lower 48 states, Alaska, Canada, South and Central America, the Middle East, the Far East and Africa. Nabors also is one of the largest land well servicing and workover contractors in the United States and Canada and is a leading provider of offshore platform workover and drilling rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. To further supplement and complement our primary business, we offer a wide range of ancillary well site services, including engineering, transportation, construction, maintenance, well logging, directional drilling, rig instrumentation, data collection and other support services, in selected domestic and international markets. During the first quarter of 2006, we began to offer subcontracted logistics services for onshore drilling and well servicing operations in Canada using helicopter and fixed winged aircraft. We have also made selective investments in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. The majority of our business is conducted through our various Contract Drilling operating segments, which include our drilling, workover and well servicing operations, on land and offshore. Our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations are included in a category labeled Oil and Gas for segment reporting purposes. Our operating segments engaged in marine transportation and supply services, drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations are aggregated in a category labeled Other Operating Segments for segment reporting purposes. Our businesses depend, to a large degree, on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Therefore, a sustained increase or decrease in the price of natural gas or oil, which could have a material impact on exploration, development and production activities, could also materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The magnitude of customer spending on new and existing wells is the primary driver of our business. The primary determinate of customer spending is the degree of their cash flow and earnings which are largely determined by natural gas prices in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, Canadian and U.S. Offshore (Gulf of Mexico) operations, while oil prices are the primary determinate in our Alaskan, International and U.S. Land Well servicing operations. The following table sets forth natural gas and oil price data per Bloomberg for the last three years: Year Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Commodity prices: Average Henry Hub natural gas spot price ($/million cubic feet (mcf)) $ 6.73 $ 8.89 $ 5.90 $ (2.16 ) (24 %) $ 2.99 51 % Average West Texas intermediate crude oil spot price ($/barrel) $ 66.09 $ 56.59 $ 41.51 $ 9.50 17 % $ 15.08 36 % 17 Table of Contents Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $4.8 billion, representing an increase of $1.4 billion, or 40%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Adjusted income derived from operating activities and net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion ($3.40 per diluted share), respectively, representing increases of 64% and 57%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled $3.5 billion, representing an increase of $1.1 billion, or 45%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Adjusted income derived from operating activities and net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled $879.8 million and $648.7 million ($2.00 per diluted share), respectively, representing increases of 167% and 114%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 resulted from higher revenues during each sequential year realized by essentially all of our operating segments. Revenues increased as a result of higher average dayrates and activity levels during 2006 compared to 2005 and 2005 compared to 2004. This increase in average dayrates and activity reflects an increase in demand for our services in these markets during these years, which resulted from continuing higher expenditures by our customers for drilling and workover services as a result of historically high oil and natural gas prices throughout 2005 and 2006. Our operating results for 2007 are still expected to increase from levels realized during 2006, despite a moderating outlook for our North American natural gas related businesses, as a result of slightly lower returns for our customers from average commodity price expectations that are in line with last year in the face of higher costs and an influx of rig capacity additions to these markets. The major factors that support our expectations of an improved year are: 1. The anticipated positive impact on our overall level of drilling and well servicing activity and margins resulting from new or substantially new rigs added as part of our expanded capital program. Our new drilling rig construction program constitutes the majority of this capital and a large proportion of these rigs are subject to long term contracts with creditworthy customers with the most significant impact occurring in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, International and Canadian operations. Investments in new rigs for markets that, while are not characterized by long term contracts, have relatively high historical and currently high levels of utilization and increasing dayrates. This constitutes the majority of the balance of the new rig construction program and is largely benefiting our U.S. Well Service, U.S. Offshore and Canadian businesses. Investments in other revenue producing assets that are in high demand such as top drives, fluid hauling trucks, fluid storage tanks, rig moving trucks and equipment and other similar auxiliary asset additions in high activity markets but not characterized by term contracts. 2. The number of term contracts covering our existing U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling rigs throughout 2007 and into 2008 which serve to mitigate the extent fleet utilization can decline in a softening market. At December 31, 2006, approximately 67% of this businesses anticipated 2007 adjusted income from operations was subject to term contracts. 3. The extent of incremental income yet to be realized from 2006 and 2007 rig deployments most of which are for multi year contracts and further income increments from the expected renewals of existing multi year contracts to much higher current market rates. The largest potential increases exist in our International markets followed by our Alaskan and U.S. Offshore businesses. We anticipate that 2007 results for our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling and Canadian drilling operations are likely going to be lower in 2007 than 2006 with a slower market and an influx of rig capacity in the U.S. Lower 48 market and more extensive market weakness in Canada. During the second quarter of 2006, our wholly owned subsidiary, Nabors Delaware, placed $2.75 billion in five year exchangeable notes with a 0.94% coupon interest rate and an original exchange premium of 30%. In order to offset the potential dilution to our shares, Nabors Delaware entered into a series of hedge transactions which effectively increased the exchange premium to 55%. In the hedge transactions, Nabors Delaware purchased call options which will cover the net shares of our common shares that would be deliverable to the note holders upon exchange of the notes. In order to partially offset the cost of the purchased call options (but which also limits the anti dilutive effect of the call options), we sold warrants to acquire approximately 60.0 million of our common shares at a strike price of $54.64. The net cost of these hedge transactions was approximately $162.4 million. These costs were accounted for as a reduction to shareholders equity. A portion of the proceeds from the notes were also used to repurchase approximately 28.5 million shares of our common stock for approximately $1.0 billion, which further reduced shareholders equity. These decreases to equity as a result of these transactions were partially offset by a $215.9 million increase to equity related to a deferred tax asset representing the tax benefits of the cost of the purchased call option, which was also accounted for through shareholders equity. After the 18 Table of Contents consummation of this transaction, we had approximately $2.0 billion in cash and investments, which we believe puts us in an excellent position to capitalize on future opportunities. The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Reportable segments: Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates: Contract Drilling: (1) U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling $ 1,890,302 $ 1,306,963 $ 748,999 $ 583,339 45 % $ 557,964 74 % U.S. Land Well servicing 704,189 491,704 360,010 212,485 43 % 131,694 37 % U.S. Offshore 221,676 158,888 132,778 62,788 40 % 26,110 20 % Alaska 110,718 85,768 83,835 24,950 29 % 1,933 2 % Canada 686,889 553,537 426,675 133,352 24 % 126,862 30 % International 746,460 552,656 444,289 193,804 35 % 108,367 24 % Subtotal Contract Drilling (2) 4,360,234 3,149,516 2,196,586 1,210,718 38 % 952,930 43 % Oil and Gas (3) 59,431 62,913 65,303 (3,482 ) (6 %) (2,390 ) (4 %) Other Operating Segments (4) (5) 626,840 355,278 205,615 271,562 76 % 149,663 73 % Other reconciling items (6) (205,798 ) (102,128 ) (69,416 ) (103,670 ) (102 %) (32,712 ) (47 %) Total $ 4,840,707 $ 3,465,579 $ 2,398,088 $ 1,375,128 40 % $ 1,067,491 45 % Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities: (7) Contract Drilling: U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling $ 821,821 $ 464,570 $ 93,573 $ 357,251 77 % $ 370,997 396 % U.S. Land Well servicing 199,944 107,728 57,712 92,216 86 % 50,016 87 % U.S. Offshore 65,328 38,783 20,611 26,545 68 % 18,172 88 % Alaska 17,542 16,608 16,052 934 6 % 556 3 % Canada 185,117 136,368 91,558 48,749 36 % 44,810 49 % International 208,705 135,588 89,211 73,117 54 % 46,377 52 % Subtotal Contract Drilling 1,498,457 899,645 368,717 598,812 67 % 530,928 144 % Oil and Gas 4,065 10,194 13,736 (6,129 ) (60 %) (3,542 ) (26 %) Other Operating Segments 74,095 34,966 (5,470 ) 39,129 112 % 40,436 N/M (8) Other reconciling items (9) (136,271 ) (64,998 ) (47,331 ) (71,273 ) (110 %) (17,667 ) (37 %) Total $ 1,440,346 $ 879,807 $ 329,652 $ 560,539 64 % $ 550,155 167 % Interest expense (46,561 ) (44,847 ) (48,507 ) (1,714 ) (4 %) 3,660 8 % Investment income 102,007 85,430 50,064 16,577 19 % 35,366 71 % Gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net (24,873 ) (46,440 ) 4,629 21,567 46 % (51,069 ) N/M (8) Income before income taxes $ 1,470,919 $ 873,950 $ 335,838 $ 596,969 68 % $ 538,112 160 % 19 Table of Contents (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Rig activity: Rig years: (10) U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling 255.5 235.9 199.0 19.6 8 % 36.9 19 % U.S. Offshore 16.4 15.6 14.4 0.8 5 % 1.2 8 % Alaska 8.6 7.1 6.9 1.5 21 % .2 3 % Canada 53.3 53.0 46.5 0.3 1 % 6.5 14 % International (11) 97.1 82.3 67.7 14.8 18 % 14.6 22 % Total rig years 430.9 393.9 334.5 37.0 9 % 59.4 18 % Rig hours: (12) U.S. Land Well servicing 1,256,141 1,216,453 1,137,914 39,688 3 % 78,539 7 % Canada Well servicing 360,129 367,414 377,170 (7,285 ) (2 %) (9,756 ) (3 %) Total rig hours 1,616,270 1,583,867 1,515,084 32,403 2 % 68,783 5 % (1) These segments include our drilling, workover and well servicing operations, on land and offshore. (2) Includes earnings (losses), net from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $4.0 million, $(1.3) million and $1.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (3) Represents our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations. (4) Includes our marine transportation and supply services, drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations. (5) Includes earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $16.5 million, $7.0 million and $2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (6) Represents the elimination of inter segment transactions. (7) Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our company. A reconciliation of this non GAAP measure to income before income taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided within the above table. (8) The percentage is so large that it is not meaningful. (9) Represents the elimination of inter segment transactions and unallocated corporate expenses. (10) Excludes well servicing rigs, which are measured in rig hours. Includes our equivalent percentage ownership of rigs owned by unconsolidated affiliates. Rig years represent a measure of the number of equivalent rigs operating during a given period. For example, one rig operating 182.5 days during a 365 day period represents 0.5 rig years. (11) International rig years include our equivalent percentage ownership of rigs owned by unconsolidated affiliates which totaled 4.0 years, 3.9 years and 4.0 years during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (12) Rig hours represents the number of hours that our well servicing rig fleet operated during the year. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Contract Drilling Our Contract Drilling operating segments contain one or more of the following operations: drilling, workover and well servicing, on land and offshore. U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 1,890,302 $ 1,306,963 $ 748,999 $ 583,339 45 % $ 557,964 74 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 821,821 $ 464,570 $ 93,573 $ 357,251 77 % $ 370,997 396 % Rig years 255.5 235.9 199.0 19.6 8 % 36.9 19 % The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from year over year increases in average dayrates and drilling activity, which is reflected in the increase in rig years from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005. Average dayrates and activity levels improved during 2005 and 2006 as a result of an increase in demand for drilling services, which resulted primarily from continuing higher price levels for natural gas during those years. 20 Table of Contents U.S. Land Well servicing. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 704,189 $ 491,704 $ 360,010 $ 212,485 43 % $ 131,694 37 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 199,944 $ 107,728 $ 57,712 $ 92,216 86 % $ 50,016 87 % Rig hours 1,256,141 1,216,453 1,137,914 39,688 3 % 78,539 7 % The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from an increase in average dayrates and from higher well servicing hours. This increase in dayrates and well servicing hours resulted from higher customer demand for our services in a number of markets in which we operate, which was driven by a sustained level of higher oil prices. U.S. Offshore. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 221,676 $ 158,888 $ 132,778 $ 62,788 40 % $ 26,110 20 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 65,328 $ 38,783 $ 20,611 $ 26,545 68 % $ 18,172 88 % Rig years 16.4 15.6 14.4 0.8 5 % 1.2 8 % The increase in operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from an increase in dayrates for our entire rig fleet due to higher customer demand for our services stemming from higher natural gas prices. Additionally, our fourth quarter operating results for 2006 were increased by $4.0 million of net business interruption insurance proceeds related to rigs of ours that were significantly damaged during Hurricane Rita in the third quarter of 2005. The increase in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from increases in average dayrates and from increased utilization for our jack up rigs, both of which resulted from improvement in demand for our drilling services in this market driven by increased natural gas prices from 2004 to 2005. Furthermore, two new platform rigs added during the second quarter of 2004 contributed to our results for all of 2005. Additionally, our operating results for 2005 were increased by $1.5 million of net business interruption insurance proceeds recorded during the third quarter of 2005 related to one of our Super Sundowner rigs that was significantly damaged during Hurricane Katrina in the third quarter of 2005 and by an additional $2.2 million of net business interruption insurance proceeds recorded in the second quarter of 2005 related to one of our MODS deepwater platform rigs significantly damaged during Hurricane Ivan in September 2004. We also recorded involuntary conversion losses related to certain other rigs damaged during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita during the third quarter of 2005 (see our discussion of gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net under Other Financial Information below for further discussion of these losses). Alaska. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 110,718 $ 85,768 $ 83,835 $ 24,950 29 % $ 1,933 2 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 17,542 $ 16,608 $ 16,052 $ 934 6 % $ 556 3 % Rig years 8.6 7.1 6.9 1.5 21 % 0.2 3 % The increase in operating results from 2005 to 2006 is primarily due to increases in average dayrates and drilling activity levels resulting from new customer demand, and the deployment and utilization of additional rigs in 2006 as 21 Table of Contents compared to 2005. The increase in 2006 was partially offset by increased labor and repairs and maintenance costs in 2006 as compared to 2005. Results did not change significantly from 2004 to 2005 as average dayrates and drilling activity levels in this market were substantially unchanged year over year. The improvement in commodity prices, which has resulted in improved demand for our services and improved dayrates across our other drilling segments did not result in these same improvements in Alaska. The mature status of most of the larger existing fields in Alaska has led to diminished activity in recent years, which has yet to recover despite the extended period of higher commodity prices. While there are numerous projects in various stages of planning that are likely to result in incremental activity, the extraordinarily long lead times and capital intensity of these projects makes it difficult to predict when and to what extent they would impact our results. Meanwhile, Alaska continues to generate positive cash flow and consume minimal capital, leaving us in a good position to capitalize on future prospects in this market. Canada. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 686,889 $ 553,537 $ 426,675 $ 133,352 24 % $ 126,862 30 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 185,117 $ 136,368 $ 91,558 $ 48,749 36 % $ 44,810 49 % Rig years Drilling 53.3 53.0 46.5 0.3 1 % 6.5 14 % Rig hours Well servicing 360,129 367,414 377,170 (7,285 ) (2 %) (9,756 ) (3 %) The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from year over year increases in average dayrates and hourly rates for our Canadian drilling and well servicing operations, respectively, and from year over year increases in drilling activity. Average dayrates and hourly rates and drilling activity levels improved as a result of increased demand for our services in this market, which was driven by increased commodity prices from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005. The increases in drilling activity are reflected in the year over year increases in rig years. Well servicing hours decreased from 2005 to 2006 as lower natural gas prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 reduced the demand for completion work on gas wells. Well servicing hours decreased from 2004 to 2005 primarily as a result of an unseasonably wet summer during 2005 in certain of our operating areas, which restricted our ability to move our well servicing rigs. Our results for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were also positively impacted by the strengthening of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar during those years. International. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 746,460 $ 552,656 $ 444,289 $ 193,804 35 % $ 108,367 24 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 208,705 $ 135,588 $ 89,211 $ 73,117 54 % $ 46,377 52 % Rig years 97.1 82.3 67.7 14.8 18 % 14.6 22 % The increase in operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from an increase in operations in Africa, Saudi Arabia, New Zealand, Columbia and Mexico, resulting from improved demand for our services and improved dayrates in these markets which is reflected in the increase in rig years from 2005 to 2006. Average dayrates and activity levels improved during 2005 and 2006 as a result of an increase in demand for drilling services, which resulted primarily from continuing higher price levels for oil during 2006. The increase in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from an increase in operations in South and Central America (primarily in Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador) and in the Middle East (primarily in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar) resulting from improved demand for our services and improved dayrates in these markets during 2005 compared to 2004, and from a full year of results in 2005 from our accommodation units added to certain of our markets in the Middle East during mid 2004. 22 Table of Contents Oil and Gas This operating segment represents our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: Year Ended December 31, (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 59,431 $ 62,913 $ 65,303 $ (3,482 ) (6 %) $ (2,390 ) (4 %) Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 4,065 $ 10,194 $ 13,736 $ (6,129 ) (60 %) $ (3,542 ) (26 %) The decrease in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from a reduction in production stemming from the payout of one investment with El Paso Corporation in late 2005 and the reversion of our net profits interest to an overriding royalty interest. The net impact of changes in commodity prices from 2005 to 2006 further contributed to the decrease in operating results from 2005 to 2006. Additionally, we incurred higher seismic costs and work over expenses as compared to prior period and also recorded an impairment of oil and gas properties totaling approximately $9.9 million that was recorded as depletion expense. This impairment resulted from lower than expected performance of certain asset groups. These decreases were partially offset by a $20.7 million gain on the sale of certain leasehold interests in the first quarter of 2006. The decrease in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from the expected decline in production under our contracts with El Paso Corporation that commenced in the fourth quarter of 2003, which was partially offset by increased production resulting from new investments in oil and gas properties and higher commodity prices during 2005. The decrease in adjusted income derived from operating activities from 2004 to 2005 was also partially offset by lower expense amounts recorded for dry holes during 2005 compared to 2004. During 2004, we recorded expense of $2.4 million as a result of a dry hole offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and during 2005, we recorded expense of $0.8 million as a result of a dry hole onshore in South Texas and also recorded an impairment of oil and gas properties totaling approximately $1.6 million as depletion expense. This impairment resulted from lower than expected performance of certain asset groups. Other Operating Segments These operations include our marine transportation and supply services, drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations. The results of operations for these operating segments are as follows: Year Ended December 31, Increase (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 626,840 $ 355,278 $ 205,615 $ 271,562 76 % $ 149,663 72 % Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities $ 74,095 $ 34,966 $ (5,470 ) $ 39,129 112 % $ 40,436 N/M (1) (1) The percentage is so large that it is not meaningful. The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from (i) increased sales of top drives driven by the strengthening of the oil and gas drilling market and increased equipment sales associated with the acquisition of Pragma Drilling Equipment Ltd. in May 2006, (ii) increased demand for directional drilling, rig instrumentation and data collection services, primarily driven by a strong U.S. market for directional drilling services as the number of horizontal and directional wells drilled increased substantially, (iii) increased margins for our marine transportation and supply services driven by higher average dayrates and higher utilization, which was primarily driven by an improvement in the offshore drilling market that resulted in increased demand for our services, and (iv) increased demand for construction and logistics services. The increase in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from (i) increased sales of top drives driven by the strengthening of the oil and gas drilling market during 2005, (ii) increased demand for directional drilling, rig instrumentation and data collection services, primarily driven by a strong Canadian market for directional drilling services as the number of horizontal and directional wells drilled increased substantially from 2004 to 2005, and (iii) increased margins 23 Table of Contents for our marine transportation and supply services driven by higher average dayrates during 2005 compared to 2004, primarily driven by an improvement in the offshore drilling market that resulted in increased demand for our services. OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION General and administrative expenses Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 General and administrative expenses $ 420,854 $ 249,973 $ 195,388 $ 170,881 68 % $ 54,585 28 % General and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenues 8.7 % 7.2 % 8.2 % 1.5 % 21 % (1.0 %) (12 %) General and administrative expenses increased from 2005 to 2006 primarily as a result of increases in wages and burden for a majority of our operating segments compared to the prior year period, which primarily resulted from an increase in the number of employees required to support the increase in activity levels and from higher wages, and increased corporate compensation expense, which primarily resulted from higher bonuses and non cash compensation expenses recorded for stock options and restricted stock grants during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior year period. The increase was also due to the $51.6 million additional compensation expense recorded during the fourth quarter of 2006 relating to the review of option granting practices performed by the Company as more fully described in Note 3. For the year ended December 31, 2006, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of operating revenues, increased compared to the prior period due to the reasons discussed above. General and administrative expenses increased from 2004 to 2005 primarily as a result of year over year increases in wages and burden for a majority of our operating segments, primarily resulting from an increase in the number of employees required to support the increase in activity levels and from higher wages, and increased corporate compensation expense, primarily resulting from taxes paid on stock options exercised, expenses recorded for restricted stock grants and higher bonuses during 2005. As a percentage of operating revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased from 2004 to 2005 as these expenses were spread over a larger revenue base. Depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Depreciation and amortization expense $ 371,127 $ 291,638 $ 254,939 $ 79,489 27 % $ 36,699 14 % Depletion expense $ 38,580 $ 46,894 $ 45,460 $ (8,314 ) (18 %) $ 1,434 3 % Depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 as a result of depreciation on capital expenditures made during 2004, 2005 and 2006, and year over year increases in average rig years for our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, Canadian land drilling and International operations. Depletion expense. Depletion expense decreased from 2005 to 2006 as a result of lower oil and gas production due to the payout of the El Paso Red River program in late 2005. These decreases were partially offset due to increases in depletion expense on non El Paso properties due to impairments of approximately $9.9 million. The impairments resulted from lower than expected performance of certain asset groups. Depletion expense increased from 2004 to 2005 as a result of production increases from new investments in oil and gas properties, which were almost entirely offset by the decline in production on oil and gas properties added through our El Paso investments in the fourth quarter of 2003. Interest expense Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Interest expense $ 46,561 $ 44,847 $ 48,507 $ 1,714 4 % $ (3,660 ) (8 %) 24 Table of Contents Interest expense increased from 2005 to 2006 as a result of the additional interest expense related to the issuance of the $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011. This increase was partially offset by interest expense reductions resulting from the redemption of 93% or $769.8 million of our $82.8 million zero coupon convertible senior debentures due 2021 on February 6, 2006. These zero coupon notes accreted at a rate of 2.5% per annum. See further discussion of these transactions in Note 9 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Interest expense decreased from 2004 to 2005 primarily as a result of the payment upon maturity of our 6.8% senior notes totaling $305.3 million in April 2004. Investment income Year Ended December 31, Increase (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Investment income $ 102,007 $ 85,430 $ 50,064 $ 16,577 19 % $ 35,366 71 % Investment income increased from 2005 to 2006 as a result of higher interest income earned on investments in cash and short term and long term investments due to rising interest rates and a higher average investment balance related to the proceeds from the issuance of the $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 received in May 2006. The proceeds from the note issuance were reduced by approximately $1.2 billion, which represents the cost of the purchase of the call options and the buy back of our stock, net of the sale of warrants. In addition, earnings on our long term investments increased during 2006 as compared to the prior year period. The increase was partially reduced in 2006 compared to the prior year periods by reduced gains realized from the sale of equity securities. Investment income increased from 2004 to 2005 as a result of (i) increased returns realized on our marketable security portfolios during 2005 compared to 2004, resulting from the positive impact of higher interest rates on our investments in interest bearing marketable debt securities, (ii) a gain realized upon the redemption of certain of our non marketable securities during 2005, and (iii) higher earnings on our non marketable securities accounted for under the equity method of accounting recorded during 2005. Gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net $ (24,873 ) $ (46,440 ) $ 4,629 $ 21,567 46 % $ (51,069 ) N/M (1) (1) The percentage is so large that it is not meaningful. The amount of gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net for 2006 primarily includes losses on sales of long lived assets of approximately $21.6 million, of which approximately $12.4 million relates to asset impairment charges. The amounts of gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net for 2005 include (1) increases to litigation reserves of approximately $27.2 million during 2005, which primarily relates to the wage and hour claims litigation in our California well servicing business discussed in Note 14 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements, and (2) losses on long lived assets of approximately $18.8 million, which primarily consists of involuntary conversion losses recorded as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita during the third quarter of 2005 totaling approximately $7.8 million and net losses recorded on sales or retirements of other long lived assets during 2005 totaling approximately $11.1 million. Income tax rate Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Effective income tax rate 31 % 26 % 10 % 25 Table of Contents The increase in our effective income tax rate from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 resulted from a higher proportion of our taxable income being generated in the U.S. during 2006 compared to 2005 and during 2005 compared to 2004. Income generated in the U.S. is generally taxed at a higher rate than in international jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, our effective tax rate for 2006 was increased as a result of a $36.2 million current tax expense relating to the redemption of common shares held by a foreign parent of a U.S. based Nabors subsidiary and decreased by an approximate $20.5 million deferred tax benefit recorded as a result of changes in Canadian laws that incrementally reduce statutory tax rates for both federal and provincial taxes over the next four years. Our effective tax rate for 2004 decreased by the release of certain tax reserves, which were determined to no longer be necessary, resulting in a reduction in deferred income tax expense (non cash) totaling approximately $16.0 million. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. In October 2004 the U.S. Congress passed and the President signed into law the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act did not impact the corporate reorganization completed by Nabors effective June 24, 2002, that made us a foreign entity. It is possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could have an impact on our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings as a result of our corporate reorganization, depending on any responsive action taken by Nabors. We expect our effective tax rate during 2007 to be in the 30% 32% range because we expect a higher proportion of our income to be generated in the U.S. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Application of FIN 48 is required in financial statements effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2006. Under FIN 48, the financial statements will reflect expected future tax consequences of such positions presuming the taxing authorities full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts, but without considering time values. FIN 48 is likely to cause greater volatility in income statements as more items are recognized discretely within income tax expense. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows Our cash flows depend, to a large degree, on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Sustained increases or decreases in the price of natural gas or oil could have a material impact on these activities, and could also materially affect our cash flows. Certain sources and uses of cash, such as the level of discretionary capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, issuances and repurchases of debt and of our common shares are within our control and are adjusted as necessary based on market conditions. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $1.5 billion during 2006 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1.0 billion during 2005. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities from 2005 to 2006 was primarily attributable to the 57% increase in net income for fiscal 2006. During 2006 and 2005, net income was increased for non cash items such as depreciation and amortization, depletion, and deferred income tax expense and was reduced for changes in our working capital (primarily accounts receivable) and other balance sheet accounts. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities totaled $1.8 billion during 2006 compared to net cash used for investing activities of $958.2 million during 2005. During 2006 and 2005 cash was primarily used for capital expenditures. See a discussion of our expanded capital program discussed under Future Cash Requirements below. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $418.3 million during 2006 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $102.6 million during 2005. During 2006, cash was provided by approximately $2.72 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of the $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 by Nabors Delaware, our receipt of proceeds totaling $25.7 million from the exercise of options to acquire our common shares by our employees, and by approximately $421.2 million from the sale of the warrants. During 2006, cash was used for the purchase of call options in the amount of $583.6 million, the redemption of 93% of our zero coupon senior convertible debentures due 2021 for a total redemption price of $769.8 million and for repurchases of our common shares in the open market for $1.4 billion. During 2005, cash was provided by our receipt of proceeds totaling $194.5 million from the exercise of options to acquire our common shares by our employees and was used for the repurchase of our common shares in the open market totaling $99.5 million. 26 Table of Contents Future Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2006, we had long term debt, including current maturities, of $4.0 billion and cash and cash equivalents and investments of $1.7 billion. Nabors Delawares $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 provide that upon an exchange of these notes, it will be required to pay holders of the notes, in lieu of common shares, cash up to the principal amount of the notes and our common shares for any amount exceeding the principal amount of the notes required to be paid pursuant to the terms of the note indentures. The notes cannot be exchanged until the price of our shares exceeds approximately $59.57 for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous calendar quarter; or during the five business days immediately following any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of that period was less than 95% of the product of the sale price of Nabors common shares and the then applicable exchange rate; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions set forth in the indenture. The $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes provide that upon an exchange of these notes, we will be required to pay holders of the notes, in lieu of common shares, cash up to the principal amount of the notes and, at our option, consideration in the form of either cash or our common shares for any amount above the principal amount of the notes required to be paid pursuant to the terms of the note indentures. The notes cannot be exchanged until the price of our shares exceeds $42.06 for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous calendar quarter, or with respect to all calendar quarters beginning on or after July 1, 2008, $38.56 on such last trading day, or subject to certain exceptions, during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of that period was less than 95% of the product of the sale price of Nabors common shares and the then applicable exchange rate; or if Nabors Delaware calls the notes for redemption; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions described in the note indenture. See a detailed discussion of the terms of these notes included in Note 9 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding purchase commitments of approximately $567.4 million, primarily for rig related enhancing, construction and sustaining capital expenditures. Total capital expenditures over the next twelve months, including these outstanding purchase commitments, are currently expected to be approximately $1.7 $1.8 billion, including currently planned rig related enhancing, construction and sustaining capital expenditures. This amount could change significantly based on market conditions and new business opportunities. The level of our outstanding purchase commitments and our expected level of capital expenditures over the next twelve months represent a number of capital programs that are currently underway or planned. These programs will result in an expansion in the number of drilling and well servicing rigs that we own and operate and will consist primarily of land drilling and well servicing rigs. The increase in capital expenditures is expected across a majority of our operating segments, most significantly within our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, U.S. Land Well servicing, Canadian, and International operations. On September 22, 2006, we entered into an agreement with First Reserve Corporation to form a new joint venture, NFR Energy LLC, to invest in oil and gas exploration opportunities worldwide. First Reserve Corporation is a private equity firm specializing in the energy industry. Each party initially will hold an equal interest in the new entity and has committed to fund its proportionate share of $1.0 billion in equity. NFR Energy LLC will pursue development and exploration projects with both existing customers of ours and with other operators in a variety of forms including operated and non operated working interests, joint ventures, farm outs and acquisitions. NFR Energy LLC has not commenced operations and has not received funding as of December 31, 2006 by either party. We have historically completed a number of acquisitions and will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire assets or businesses to enhance our operations. Several of our previous acquisitions were funded through issuances of our common shares. Future acquisitions may be paid for using existing cash or issuance of debt or Nabors shares. Such capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our view of market conditions and other factors. See our discussion of guarantees issued by Nabors that could have a potential impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future periods included under Off Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees) below. The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2006: 27 Table of Contents Payments due by Period (In thousands) Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Thereafter Contractual cash obligations: Long term debt: Principal $ 4,014,557 $ $ 925,000 (1) $ 2,814,557 (2) $ 275,000 Interest 237,920 51,600 103,201 68,338 14,781 Operating leases (3) 31,863 10,324 13,154 6,377 2,008 Purchase commitments (4) 567,375 567,365 10 Employment contracts (3) 9,018 2,598 4,728 1,692 Pension funding obligations (5) 950 950 Total contractual cash obligations $ 4,861,683 $ 632,837 $ 1,046,093 $ 2,890,964 $ 291,789 (1) Represents the $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes, which can be put to us on June 15, 2008 and can be exchanged for cash in certain circumstances including when the price of our shares exceeds approximately $42.06 for the required period of time and also includes the $225 million senior notes due August 15, 2009. (2) Includes the $2.75 billion senior exchangeable notes due 2011 and the remainder of the $82 million zero coupon senior debentures due 2021, which can be put to us on February 5, 2011. (3) See Note 14 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. (4) Purchase commitments include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable pricing provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (5) See Note 12 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. In July 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to $500 million of our common shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. This program supersedes and cancels our previous share repurchase program. Through December 31, 2006, approximately $93.7 million of our common shares had been repurchased under this program. As of December 31, 2006, we had $406.3 million of shares that still may be purchased under the July 2006 share repurchase program. Financial Condition and Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, marketable and non marketable securities and cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents and investments of $1.7 billion (including $513.3 million of long term investments) and working capital of $1.7 billion. This compares to cash and cash equivalents and investments of $1.6 billion (including $222.8 million of long term investments) and working capital of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2005. Our funded debt to capital ratio was 0.50:1 as of December 31, 2006 and 0.32:1 as of December 31, 2005. Our net funded debt to capital ratio was 0.37:1 as of December 31, 2006 and 0.08:1 as of December 31, 2005. The gross funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing funded debt by funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. The net funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing net funded debt by net funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Net funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt reduced by the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short term and long term investments. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. Both of these ratios are a method for calculating the amount of leverage a company has in relation to its capital. Long term investments consist of investments in overseas funds investing primarily in a variety of public and private U.S. and non U.S. securities (including asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities, global structured asset securitizations, whole loan mortgages, and participations in whole loans and whole loan mortgages). These investments are classified as non marketable, because they do not have published fair values. Our interest coverage ratio was 39.2:1 as of December 31, 2006, compared to 26.1:1 as of December 31, 2005. The interest coverage ratio is computed by calculating the sum of income before income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense less investment income and then dividing by interest expense. This ratio is a method for calculating the amount of operating cash flows available to cover interest expense. We have three letter of credit facilities with various banks as of December 31, 2006. Availability and borrowings under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: 28 Table of Contents (In thousands) Credit available $ 147,545 Letters of credit outstanding (108,580 ) Remaining availability $ 38,965 We have a shelf registration statement on file with the SEC to allow us to offer, from time to time, up to $700 million in debt securities, guarantees of debt securities, preferred shares, depository shares, common shares, share purchase contracts, share purchase units and warrants. We currently have not issued any securities registered under this registration statement. Our current cash and cash equivalents, investments in marketable and non marketable securities and projected cash flows generated from current operations are expected to more than adequately finance our purchase commitments, our debt service requirements, and all other expected cash requirements for the next twelve months. However, as discussed under Future Cash Requirements above, the $2.75 billion, 0.94% senior exchangeable notes and $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes can be exchanged when the price of our shares exceeds $59.57 and $42.06, respectively, for the required periods of time, resulting in our payment of the principal amount of the notes, or $2.75 billion and $700 million, respectively, in cash. On February 22, 2007, the market price for our shares closed at $30.58. If the market price threshold of $59.57 or $42.06 was exceeded and the notes were exchanged, the required cash payment could have a significant impact on our level of cash and cash equivalents and investments available to meet our other cash obligations. Nabors management believes that the holders of these notes would not be likely to exchange the notes as it would be more economically beneficial to them if they sold the notes on the open market. However, there can be no assurance that the holders would not exchange the notes. Further, management believes that we have the ability to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing in order to satisfy any payment obligations that might arise upon exchange of these notes and that any cash payment due of this magnitude, in addition to our other cash obligations, will not ultimately have a material adverse impact on our liquidity or financial position. Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by Moodys Investor Service and Fitch Ratings, which are currently A3 and A , respectively, and our historical ability to access those markets as needed. See our discussion of the impact of changes in market conditions on our derivative financial instruments discussed under Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk below. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS (INCLUDING GUARANTEES) We are a party to certain transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements defined as off balance sheet arrangements that could have a material future effect on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. The most significant of these off balance sheet arrangements involve agreements and obligations in which we provide financial or performance assurance to third parties. Certain of these agreements serve as guarantees, including standby letters of credit issued on behalf of insurance carriers in conjunction with our workers compensation insurance program and other financial surety instruments such as bonds. We have also guaranteed payment of contingent consideration in conjunction with certain acquisitions in 2005 and 2006. Potential contingent consideration is based on future operating results of those businesses (Note 4). In addition, we have provided indemnifications to certain third parties which serve as guarantees. These guarantees include indemnification provided by Nabors to our share transfer agent and our insurance carriers. We are not able to estimate the potential future maximum payments that might be due under our indemnification guarantees. Management believes the likelihood that we would be required to perform or otherwise incur any material losses associated with any of these guarantees is remote. The following table summarizes the total maximum amount of financial and performance guarantees issued by Nabors: Maximum Amount (In thousands) 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Financial standby letters of credit and other financial surety instruments $ 102,356 $ 1,195 $ 100 $ 25 $ 103,676 Contingent consideration in acquisitions 10,297 1,063 1,063 2,124 14,547 Total $ 112,653 $ 2,258 $ 1,163 $ 2,149 $ 118,223 29 Table of Contents OTHER MATTERS Recent Legislation, Coast Guard Regulations and Actions Our Sea Mar division time charters supply vessels to offshore operators in U.S. waters. The vessels are owned by one of our financing company subsidiaries, but are operated and managed by a U.S. citizen controlled company pursuant to long term bareboat charters. As a result of recent legislation, beginning in August 2007, Sea Mar will no longer be able to use this arrangement to qualify vessels for employment in the U.S. coastwise trade. Accordingly, we will be required to restructure the arrangement, redeploy the vessels outside the United States, or sell the vessels by no later than such time. As of December 31, 2006, the net assets of Sea Mar totaled approximately $154.4 million. During 2006 Sea Mar had income before income taxes totaling $43.3 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, which prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. Under FIN 48, the financial statements will reflect expected future tax consequences of such positions presuming the taxing authorities full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts, but without considering time values. FIN 48 is likely to cause greater volatility in income statements as more items are recognized discretely within income tax expense. Application of FIN 48 is required in financial statements effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2006. FIN 48 revises disclosure requirements and will require an annual tabular roll forward of unrecognized tax benefits. We expect to adopt FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating the impact that this interpretation may have on our consolidated financial statements. Any adjustment required as a result of the adoption of FIN 48, which may be material, will be recorded to retained earnings. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This statement establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The provisions of SFAS 157 should be applied prospectively as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which SFAS 157 is initially applied, except in limited circumstances. We expect to adopt SFAS 157 beginning January 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact that this pronouncement may have on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). This statement requires companies to recognize a net liability or asset to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. SFAS 158 is required to be applied in financial statements effected for periods ending after December 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 158 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value and establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year that begins on or before November 15, 2007, provided the entity also elects to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157. We expect to adopt SFAS 159 beginning January 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact that this pronouncement may have on our consolidated financial statements. The Company has several stock based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described in Note 3 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for awards granted under those plans following the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Bulletin Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, (APB 25) and related interpretations. Under APB 25, no compensation expense is recognized when the option price is equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of award. We generally did not recognize compensation expense in connection with stock option awards to employees, directors and officers under our plans. See Note 3 and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Under the provisions of FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (SFAS 123), the pro forma effects on income for stock options were instead disclosed in a footnote to the financial statements. Compensation expense was recorded in the income statement for restricted stock awards over the vesting period of the award. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, (SFAS 123 R), using the modified prospective application 30 Table of Contents method. Under this transition method, the Company will record compensation expense for all stock option awards granted after the date of adoption and for the unvested portion of previously granted stock option awards that remain outstanding at the date of adoption. The amount of compensation cost recognized was based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123. Results for prior periods have not been restated. As a result of adopting SFAS 123 R on January 1, 2006, Nabors income before income taxes and net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $16.6 million, and $12.4 million lower, respectively, than if we had continued to account for share based compensation under APB 25. Basic and diluted earnings per share were $.04 and $.05 lower, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006 as a result of adopting SFAS 123 R. See the disclosures required upon adoption of SFAS 123 R in Note 3 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Related Party Transactions Pursuant to his employment agreement entered into in October 1996, we provided an unsecured, non interest bearing loan of approximately $2.9 million to Nabors Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer. The loan was repaid to the Company on October 8, 2006. Pursuant to their employment agreements, Nabors and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, and certain other key employees entered into split dollar life insurance agreements pursuant to which we paid a portion of the premiums under life insurance policies with respect to these individuals and, in certain instances, members of their families. Under these agreements, we are reimbursed for such premiums upon the occurrence of specified events, including the death of an insured individual. Any recovery of premiums paid by Nabors could potentially be limited to the cash surrender value of these policies under certain circumstances. As such, the values of these policies are recorded at their respective cash surrender values in our consolidated balance sheets. We have made premium payments to date totaling $11.2 million related to these policies. The cash surrender value of these policies of approximately $10.3 million and $10.1 million is included in other long term assets in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the payment of premiums by Nabors under the agreements with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and with our Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer may be deemed to be prohibited loans by us to these individuals. We have paid no premiums related to our agreements with these individuals since the adoption of the Sarbanes Oxley Act and have postponed premium payments related to our agreements with these individuals. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into various rig leases, rig transportation and related oilfield services agreements with our Alaskan and Saudi Arabian unconsolidated affiliates at market prices. Revenues from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $99.2 million, $82.3 million and $63.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Expenses from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $4.7 million, $4.0 million and $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, we had accounts receivable from these affiliated entities of $41.2 million and $33.1 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We had accounts payable to these affiliated entities of $0.3 million and $2.2 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and long term payables with these affiliated entities of $6.6 million and $5.8 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which is included in other long term liabilities. Additionally, we own certain marine vessels that are chartered under a bareboat charter arrangement to Sea Mar Management LLC, an entity in which we own a 25% interest. Under the requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 46R this entity was consolidated by Nabors beginning in 2004. During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company entered into a transaction with Shona Energy Company, LLC (Shona), a company in which Mr. Payne, an outside director of the Company, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Pursuant to the transaction, a subsidiary of the Company acquired and holds a minority interest of less than 20% of the issued and outstanding common shares of Shona in exchange for certain rights derived from an oil and gas concession held by that subsidiary. Critical Accounting Estimates 31 Table of Contents The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. We analyze our estimates based on our historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, actual results could differ from such estimates. The following is a discussion of our critical accounting estimates. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and changes in the estimate or different estimates that could have been selected could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. For a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment The drilling, workover and well servicing industries are very capital intensive. Property, plant and equipment represented 59% of our total assets as of December 31, 2006, and depreciation constituted 11% of our total costs and other deductions for the year ended December 31, 2006. Depreciation for our primary operating assets, drilling and workover rigs, is calculated based on the units of production method over an approximate 4,900 day period, with the exception of our jack up rigs which are depreciated over an 8,030 day period, after provision for salvage value. When our drilling and workover rigs are not operating, a depreciation charge is provided using the straight line method over an assumed depreciable life of 20 years, with the exception of our jack up rigs, where a 30 year depreciable life is used. Depreciation on our buildings, well servicing rigs, oilfield hauling and mobile equipment, marine transportation and supply vessels, aircraft equipment, and other machinery and equipment is computed using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of the asset after provision for salvage value (buildings 10 to 30 years; well servicing rigs 3 to 15 years; marine transportation and supply vessels 10 to 25 years; aircraft equipment 5 to 20 years; oilfield hauling and mobile equipment and other machinery and equipment 3 to 10 years). These depreciation periods and the salvage values of our property, plant and equipment were determined through an analysis of the useful lives of our assets and based on our experience with the salvage values of these assets. Periodically, we review our depreciation periods and salvage values for reasonableness given current conditions. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is therefore based upon estimates of the useful lives and salvage value of those assets. Estimation of these items requires significant management judgment. Accordingly, management believes that accounting estimates related to depreciation expense recorded on property, plant and equipment are critical. There have been no factors related to the performance of our portfolio of assets, changes in technology or other factors that indicate that these lives do not continue to be appropriate. Accordingly, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, no significant changes have been made to the depreciation rates applied to property, plant and equipment, the underlying assumptions related to estimates of depreciation, or the methodology applied. However, certain events could occur that would materially affect our estimates and assumptions related to depreciation. Unforeseen changes in operations or technology could substantially alter managements assumptions regarding our ability to realize the return on our investment in operating assets and therefore affect the useful lives and salvage values of our assets. Impairment of Long Lived Assets As discussed above, the drilling, workover and well servicing industries are very capital intensive, which is evident in the fact that our property, plant and equipment represented 59% of our total assets as of December 31, 2006. Other long lived assets subject to impairment consist primarily of goodwill, which represented 4% of our total assets as of December 31, 2006. We review our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such assets may not be recoverable. In addition, we review goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, as required by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. An impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount of the long lived asset is not recoverable. Such determination requires us to make judgments regarding long term forecasts of future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review in order to determine the future cash flows associated with the asset or, in the case of goodwill, our reporting units. These long term forecasts are uncertain in that they require assumptions about demand for our products and services, future market conditions, technological advances in the industry, and changes in regulations governing the industry. Significant and unanticipated changes to the assumptions could require a provision for impairment in a future period. As the determination of whether impairment charges should be recorded on our long lived assets is subject 32 Table of Contents to significant management judgment and an impairment of these assets could result in a material charge on our consolidated statements of income, management believes that accounting estimates related to impairment of long lived assets are critical. Assumptions made in the determination of future cash flows are made with the involvement of management personnel at the operational level where the most specific knowledge of market conditions and other operating factors exists. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, no significant changes have been made to the methodology utilized to determine future cash flows. Given the nature of the evaluation of future cash flows and the application to specific assets and specific times, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the impact of changes in these assumptions. Income Taxes Deferred taxes represent a substantial liability for Nabors. For financial reporting purposes, management determines our current tax liability as well as those taxes incurred as a result of current operations yet deferred until future periods. In accordance with the liability method of accounting for income taxes as specified in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the provision for income taxes is the sum of income taxes both currently payable and deferred. Currently payable taxes represent the liability related to our income tax return for the current year while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on our consolidated balance sheets. The tax effects of unrealized gains and losses on investments and derivative financial instruments are recorded through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within shareholders equity. The changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon changes in differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the basis of assets and liabilities for tax purposes as measured by the enacted tax rates that management estimates will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future tax rates applicable to the reversal of tax differences, management must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary, management must estimate the timing of their reversal, and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the need for valuation allowances, management has considered and made judgments and estimates regarding estimated future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. These judgments and estimates are made for each tax jurisdiction in which we operate as the calculation of deferred taxes is completed at that level. Further, under U.S. federal tax law, the amount and availability of loss carryforwards (and certain other tax attributes) are subject to a variety of interpretations and restrictive tests applicable to Nabors and our subsidiaries. The utilization of such carryforwards could be limited or effectively lost upon certain changes in ownership. Accordingly, although we believe substantial loss carryforwards are available to us, no assurance can be given concerning the realization of such loss carryforwards, or whether or not such loss carryforwards will be available in the future. These loss carryforwards are also considered in our calculation of taxes for each jurisdiction in which we operate. Additionally, we record reserves for uncertain tax positions which are subject to a significant level of management judgment related to the ultimate resolution of those tax positions. Accordingly, management believes that the estimate related to the provision for income taxes is critical to our results of operations. We have received notifications from the IRS on various matters as a result of IRS audits of certain tax years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors We may have additional tax liabilities and Note 10 under 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results of our operations and our financial condition. This information is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. Nabors is the largest land drilling contractor in the world. We conduct oil, gas and geothermal land drilling operations in the U.S. Lower 48 states, Alaska, Canada, South and Central America, the Middle East, the Far East and Africa. Nabors also is one of the largest land well servicing and workover contractors in the United States and Canada and is a leading provider of offshore platform workover and drilling rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. To further supplement and complement our primary business, we offer a wide range of ancillary well site services, including engineering, transportation, construction, maintenance, well logging, directional drilling, rig instrumentation, data collection and other support services, in selected domestic and international markets. During the first quarter of 2006, we began to offer subcontracted logistics services for onshore drilling and well servicing operations in Canada using helicopter and fixed winged aircraft. We have also made selective investments in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. The majority of our business is conducted through our various Contract Drilling operating segments, which include our drilling, workover and well servicing operations, on land and offshore. Our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations are included in a category labeled Oil and Gas for segment reporting purposes. Our operating segments engaged in marine transportation and supply services, drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations are aggregated in a category labeled Other Operating Segments for segment reporting purposes. Our businesses depend, to a large degree, on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Therefore, a sustained increase or decrease in the price of natural gas or oil, which could have a material impact on exploration, development and production activities, could also materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The magnitude of customer spending on new and existing wells is the primary driver of our business. The primary determinate of customer spending is the degree of their cash flow and earnings which are largely determined by natural gas prices in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, Canadian and U.S. Offshore (Gulf of Mexico) operations, while oil prices are the primary determinate in our Alaskan, International and U.S. Land Well servicing operations. The following table sets forth natural gas and oil price data per Bloomberg for the last three years: Year Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Commodity prices: Average Henry Hub natural gas spot price ($/million cubic feet (mcf)) $ 6.73 $ 8.89 $ 5.90 $ (2.16 ) (24 %) $ 2.99 51 % Average West Texas intermediate crude oil spot price ($/barrel) $ 66.09 $ 56.59 $ 41.51 $ 9.50 17 % $ 15.08 36 % 17 Table of Contents Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $4.8 billion, representing an increase of $1.4 billion, or 40%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Adjusted income derived from operating activities and net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion ($3.40 per diluted share), respectively, representing increases of 64% and 57%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled $3.5 billion, representing an increase of $1.1 billion, or 45%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Adjusted income derived from operating activities and net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled $879.8 million and $648.7 million ($2.00 per diluted share), respectively, representing increases of 167% and 114%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 resulted from higher revenues during each sequential year realized by essentially all of our operating segments. Revenues increased as a result of higher average dayrates and activity levels during 2006 compared to 2005 and 2005 compared to 2004. This increase in average dayrates and activity reflects an increase in demand for our services in these markets during these years, which resulted from continuing higher expenditures by our customers for drilling and workover services as a result of historically high oil and natural gas prices throughout 2005 and 2006. Our operating results for 2007 are still expected to increase from levels realized during 2006, despite a moderating outlook for our North American natural gas related businesses, as a result of slightly lower returns for our customers from average commodity price expectations that are in line with last year in the face of higher costs and an influx of rig capacity additions to these markets. The major factors that support our expectations of an improved year are: 1. The anticipated positive impact on our overall level of drilling and well servicing activity and margins resulting from new or substantially new rigs added as part of our expanded capital program. Our new drilling rig construction program constitutes the majority of this capital and a large proportion of these rigs are subject to long term contracts with creditworthy customers with the most significant impact occurring in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, International and Canadian operations. Investments in new rigs for markets that, while are not characterized by long term contracts, have relatively high historical and currently high levels of utilization and increasing dayrates. This constitutes the majority of the balance of the new rig construction program and is largely benefiting our U.S. Well Service, U.S. Offshore and Canadian businesses. Investments in other revenue producing assets that are in high demand such as top drives, fluid hauling trucks, fluid storage tanks, rig moving trucks and equipment and other similar auxiliary asset additions in high activity markets but not characterized by term contracts. 2. The number of term contracts covering our existing U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling rigs throughout 2007 and into 2008 which serve to mitigate the extent fleet utilization can decline in a softening market. At December 31, 2006, approximately 67% of this businesses anticipated 2007 adjusted income from operations was subject to term contracts. 3. The extent of incremental income yet to be realized from 2006 and 2007 rig deployments most of which are for multi year contracts and further income increments from the expected renewals of existing multi year contracts to much higher current market rates. The largest potential increases exist in our International markets followed by our Alaskan and U.S. Offshore businesses. We anticipate that 2007 results for our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling and Canadian drilling operations are likely going to be lower in 2007 than 2006 with a slower market and an influx of rig capacity in the U.S. Lower 48 market and more extensive market weakness in Canada. During the second quarter of 2006, our wholly owned subsidiary, Nabors Delaware, placed $2.75 billion in five year exchangeable notes with a 0.94% coupon interest rate and an original exchange premium of 30%. In order to offset the potential dilution to our shares, Nabors Delaware entered into a series of hedge transactions which effectively increased the exchange premium to 55%. In the hedge transactions, Nabors Delaware purchased call options which will cover the net shares of our common shares that would be deliverable to the note holders upon exchange of the notes. In order to partially offset the cost of the purchased call options (but which also limits the anti dilutive effect of the call options), we sold warrants to acquire approximately 60.0 million of our common shares at a strike price of $54.64. The net cost of these hedge transactions was approximately $162.4 million. These costs were accounted for as a reduction to shareholders equity. A portion of the proceeds from the notes were also used to repurchase approximately 28.5 million shares of our common stock for approximately $1.0 billion, which further reduced shareholders equity. These decreases to equity as a result of these transactions were partially offset by a $215.9 million increase to equity related to a deferred tax asset representing the tax benefits of the cost of the purchased call option, which was also accounted for through shareholders equity. After the 18 Table of Contents consummation of this transaction, we had approximately $2.0 billion in cash and investments, which we believe puts us in an excellent position to capitalize on future opportunities. The following tables set forth certain information with respect to our reportable segments and rig activity: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Reportable segments: Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates: Contract Drilling: (1) U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling $ 1,890,302 $ 1,306,963 $ 748,999 $ 583,339 45 % $ 557,964 74 % U.S. Land Well servicing 704,189 491,704 360,010 212,485 43 % 131,694 37 % U.S. Offshore 221,676 158,888 132,778 62,788 40 % 26,110 20 % Alaska 110,718 85,768 83,835 24,950 29 % 1,933 2 % Canada 686,889 553,537 426,675 133,352 24 % 126,862 30 % International 746,460 552,656 444,289 193,804 35 % 108,367 24 % Subtotal Contract Drilling (2) 4,360,234 3,149,516 2,196,586 1,210,718 38 % 952,930 43 % Oil and Gas (3) 59,431 62,913 65,303 (3,482 ) (6 %) (2,390 ) (4 %) Other Operating Segments (4) (5) 626,840 355,278 205,615 271,562 76 % 149,663 73 % Other reconciling items (6) (205,798 ) (102,128 ) (69,416 ) (103,670 ) (102 %) (32,712 ) (47 %) Total $ 4,840,707 $ 3,465,579 $ 2,398,088 $ 1,375,128 40 % $ 1,067,491 45 % Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities: (7) Contract Drilling: U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling $ 821,821 $ 464,570 $ 93,573 $ 357,251 77 % $ 370,997 396 % U.S. Land Well servicing 199,944 107,728 57,712 92,216 86 % 50,016 87 % U.S. Offshore 65,328 38,783 20,611 26,545 68 % 18,172 88 % Alaska 17,542 16,608 16,052 934 6 % 556 3 % Canada 185,117 136,368 91,558 48,749 36 % 44,810 49 % International 208,705 135,588 89,211 73,117 54 % 46,377 52 % Subtotal Contract Drilling 1,498,457 899,645 368,717 598,812 67 % 530,928 144 % Oil and Gas 4,065 10,194 13,736 (6,129 ) (60 %) (3,542 ) (26 %) Other Operating Segments 74,095 34,966 (5,470 ) 39,129 112 % 40,436 N/M (8) Other reconciling items (9) (136,271 ) (64,998 ) (47,331 ) (71,273 ) (110 %) (17,667 ) (37 %) Total $ 1,440,346 $ 879,807 $ 329,652 $ 560,539 64 % $ 550,155 167 % Interest expense (46,561 ) (44,847 ) (48,507 ) (1,714 ) (4 %) 3,660 8 % Investment income 102,007 85,430 50,064 16,577 19 % 35,366 71 % Gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net (24,873 ) (46,440 ) 4,629 21,567 46 % (51,069 ) N/M (8) Income before income taxes $ 1,470,919 $ 873,950 $ 335,838 $ 596,969 68 % $ 538,112 160 % 19 Table of Contents (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Rig activity: Rig years: (10) U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling 255.5 235.9 199.0 19.6 8 % 36.9 19 % U.S. Offshore 16.4 15.6 14.4 0.8 5 % 1.2 8 % Alaska 8.6 7.1 6.9 1.5 21 % .2 3 % Canada 53.3 53.0 46.5 0.3 1 % 6.5 14 % International (11) 97.1 82.3 67.7 14.8 18 % 14.6 22 % Total rig years 430.9 393.9 334.5 37.0 9 % 59.4 18 % Rig hours: (12) U.S. Land Well servicing 1,256,141 1,216,453 1,137,914 39,688 3 % 78,539 7 % Canada Well servicing 360,129 367,414 377,170 (7,285 ) (2 %) (9,756 ) (3 %) Total rig hours 1,616,270 1,583,867 1,515,084 32,403 2 % 68,783 5 % (1) These segments include our drilling, workover and well servicing operations, on land and offshore. (2) Includes earnings (losses), net from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $4.0 million, $(1.3) million and $1.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (3) Represents our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations. (4) Includes our marine transportation and supply services, drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations. (5) Includes earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, accounted for by the equity method, of $16.5 million, $7.0 million and $2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (6) Represents the elimination of inter segment transactions. (7) Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities is computed by: subtracting direct costs, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense from Operating revenues and then adding Earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. Such amounts should not be used as a substitute to those amounts reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management evaluates the performance of our business units and the consolidated company based on several criteria, including adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities, because it believes that this financial measure is an accurate reflection of the ongoing profitability of our company. A reconciliation of this non GAAP measure to income before income taxes, which is a GAAP measure, is provided within the above table. (8) The percentage is so large that it is not meaningful. (9) Represents the elimination of inter segment transactions and unallocated corporate expenses. (10) Excludes well servicing rigs, which are measured in rig hours. Includes our equivalent percentage ownership of rigs owned by unconsolidated affiliates. Rig years represent a measure of the number of equivalent rigs operating during a given period. For example, one rig operating 182.5 days during a 365 day period represents 0.5 rig years. (11) International rig years include our equivalent percentage ownership of rigs owned by unconsolidated affiliates which totaled 4.0 years, 3.9 years and 4.0 years during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (12) Rig hours represents the number of hours that our well servicing rig fleet operated during the year. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Contract Drilling Our Contract Drilling operating segments contain one or more of the following operations: drilling, workover and well servicing, on land and offshore. U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 1,890,302 $ 1,306,963 $ 748,999 $ 583,339 45 % $ 557,964 74 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 821,821 $ 464,570 $ 93,573 $ 357,251 77 % $ 370,997 396 % Rig years 255.5 235.9 199.0 19.6 8 % 36.9 19 % The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from year over year increases in average dayrates and drilling activity, which is reflected in the increase in rig years from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005. Average dayrates and activity levels improved during 2005 and 2006 as a result of an increase in demand for drilling services, which resulted primarily from continuing higher price levels for natural gas during those years. 20 Table of Contents U.S. Land Well servicing. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 704,189 $ 491,704 $ 360,010 $ 212,485 43 % $ 131,694 37 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 199,944 $ 107,728 $ 57,712 $ 92,216 86 % $ 50,016 87 % Rig hours 1,256,141 1,216,453 1,137,914 39,688 3 % 78,539 7 % The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from an increase in average dayrates and from higher well servicing hours. This increase in dayrates and well servicing hours resulted from higher customer demand for our services in a number of markets in which we operate, which was driven by a sustained level of higher oil prices. U.S. Offshore. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 221,676 $ 158,888 $ 132,778 $ 62,788 40 % $ 26,110 20 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 65,328 $ 38,783 $ 20,611 $ 26,545 68 % $ 18,172 88 % Rig years 16.4 15.6 14.4 0.8 5 % 1.2 8 % The increase in operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from an increase in dayrates for our entire rig fleet due to higher customer demand for our services stemming from higher natural gas prices. Additionally, our fourth quarter operating results for 2006 were increased by $4.0 million of net business interruption insurance proceeds related to rigs of ours that were significantly damaged during Hurricane Rita in the third quarter of 2005. The increase in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from increases in average dayrates and from increased utilization for our jack up rigs, both of which resulted from improvement in demand for our drilling services in this market driven by increased natural gas prices from 2004 to 2005. Furthermore, two new platform rigs added during the second quarter of 2004 contributed to our results for all of 2005. Additionally, our operating results for 2005 were increased by $1.5 million of net business interruption insurance proceeds recorded during the third quarter of 2005 related to one of our Super Sundowner rigs that was significantly damaged during Hurricane Katrina in the third quarter of 2005 and by an additional $2.2 million of net business interruption insurance proceeds recorded in the second quarter of 2005 related to one of our MODS deepwater platform rigs significantly damaged during Hurricane Ivan in September 2004. We also recorded involuntary conversion losses related to certain other rigs damaged during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita during the third quarter of 2005 (see our discussion of gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net under Other Financial Information below for further discussion of these losses). Alaska. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 110,718 $ 85,768 $ 83,835 $ 24,950 29 % $ 1,933 2 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 17,542 $ 16,608 $ 16,052 $ 934 6 % $ 556 3 % Rig years 8.6 7.1 6.9 1.5 21 % 0.2 3 % The increase in operating results from 2005 to 2006 is primarily due to increases in average dayrates and drilling activity levels resulting from new customer demand, and the deployment and utilization of additional rigs in 2006 as 21 Table of Contents compared to 2005. The increase in 2006 was partially offset by increased labor and repairs and maintenance costs in 2006 as compared to 2005. Results did not change significantly from 2004 to 2005 as average dayrates and drilling activity levels in this market were substantially unchanged year over year. The improvement in commodity prices, which has resulted in improved demand for our services and improved dayrates across our other drilling segments did not result in these same improvements in Alaska. The mature status of most of the larger existing fields in Alaska has led to diminished activity in recent years, which has yet to recover despite the extended period of higher commodity prices. While there are numerous projects in various stages of planning that are likely to result in incremental activity, the extraordinarily long lead times and capital intensity of these projects makes it difficult to predict when and to what extent they would impact our results. Meanwhile, Alaska continues to generate positive cash flow and consume minimal capital, leaving us in a good position to capitalize on future prospects in this market. Canada. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 686,889 $ 553,537 $ 426,675 $ 133,352 24 % $ 126,862 30 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 185,117 $ 136,368 $ 91,558 $ 48,749 36 % $ 44,810 49 % Rig years Drilling 53.3 53.0 46.5 0.3 1 % 6.5 14 % Rig hours Well servicing 360,129 367,414 377,170 (7,285 ) (2 %) (9,756 ) (3 %) The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from year over year increases in average dayrates and hourly rates for our Canadian drilling and well servicing operations, respectively, and from year over year increases in drilling activity. Average dayrates and hourly rates and drilling activity levels improved as a result of increased demand for our services in this market, which was driven by increased commodity prices from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005. The increases in drilling activity are reflected in the year over year increases in rig years. Well servicing hours decreased from 2005 to 2006 as lower natural gas prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 reduced the demand for completion work on gas wells. Well servicing hours decreased from 2004 to 2005 primarily as a result of an unseasonably wet summer during 2005 in certain of our operating areas, which restricted our ability to move our well servicing rigs. Our results for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were also positively impacted by the strengthening of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar during those years. International. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: (In thousands, except percentages Year Ended December 31, Increase and rig activity) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 746,460 $ 552,656 $ 444,289 $ 193,804 35 % $ 108,367 24 % Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 208,705 $ 135,588 $ 89,211 $ 73,117 54 % $ 46,377 52 % Rig years 97.1 82.3 67.7 14.8 18 % 14.6 22 % The increase in operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from an increase in operations in Africa, Saudi Arabia, New Zealand, Columbia and Mexico, resulting from improved demand for our services and improved dayrates in these markets which is reflected in the increase in rig years from 2005 to 2006. Average dayrates and activity levels improved during 2005 and 2006 as a result of an increase in demand for drilling services, which resulted primarily from continuing higher price levels for oil during 2006. The increase in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from an increase in operations in South and Central America (primarily in Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador) and in the Middle East (primarily in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar) resulting from improved demand for our services and improved dayrates in these markets during 2005 compared to 2004, and from a full year of results in 2005 from our accommodation units added to certain of our markets in the Middle East during mid 2004. 22 Table of Contents Oil and Gas This operating segment represents our oil and gas exploration, development and production operations. The results of operations for this reportable segment are as follows: Year Ended December 31, (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 59,431 $ 62,913 $ 65,303 $ (3,482 ) (6 %) $ (2,390 ) (4 %) Adjusted income derived from operating activities $ 4,065 $ 10,194 $ 13,736 $ (6,129 ) (60 %) $ (3,542 ) (26 %) The decrease in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from a reduction in production stemming from the payout of one investment with El Paso Corporation in late 2005 and the reversion of our net profits interest to an overriding royalty interest. The net impact of changes in commodity prices from 2005 to 2006 further contributed to the decrease in operating results from 2005 to 2006. Additionally, we incurred higher seismic costs and work over expenses as compared to prior period and also recorded an impairment of oil and gas properties totaling approximately $9.9 million that was recorded as depletion expense. This impairment resulted from lower than expected performance of certain asset groups. These decreases were partially offset by a $20.7 million gain on the sale of certain leasehold interests in the first quarter of 2006. The decrease in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from the expected decline in production under our contracts with El Paso Corporation that commenced in the fourth quarter of 2003, which was partially offset by increased production resulting from new investments in oil and gas properties and higher commodity prices during 2005. The decrease in adjusted income derived from operating activities from 2004 to 2005 was also partially offset by lower expense amounts recorded for dry holes during 2005 compared to 2004. During 2004, we recorded expense of $2.4 million as a result of a dry hole offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and during 2005, we recorded expense of $0.8 million as a result of a dry hole onshore in South Texas and also recorded an impairment of oil and gas properties totaling approximately $1.6 million as depletion expense. This impairment resulted from lower than expected performance of certain asset groups. Other Operating Segments These operations include our marine transportation and supply services, drilling technology and top drive manufacturing, directional drilling, rig instrumentation and software, and construction and logistics operations. The results of operations for these operating segments are as follows: Year Ended December 31, Increase (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Operating revenues and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 626,840 $ 355,278 $ 205,615 $ 271,562 76 % $ 149,663 72 % Adjusted income (loss) derived from operating activities $ 74,095 $ 34,966 $ (5,470 ) $ 39,129 112 % $ 40,436 N/M (1) (1) The percentage is so large that it is not meaningful. The increase in our operating results from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from (i) increased sales of top drives driven by the strengthening of the oil and gas drilling market and increased equipment sales associated with the acquisition of Pragma Drilling Equipment Ltd. in May 2006, (ii) increased demand for directional drilling, rig instrumentation and data collection services, primarily driven by a strong U.S. market for directional drilling services as the number of horizontal and directional wells drilled increased substantially, (iii) increased margins for our marine transportation and supply services driven by higher average dayrates and higher utilization, which was primarily driven by an improvement in the offshore drilling market that resulted in increased demand for our services, and (iv) increased demand for construction and logistics services. The increase in our operating results from 2004 to 2005 primarily resulted from (i) increased sales of top drives driven by the strengthening of the oil and gas drilling market during 2005, (ii) increased demand for directional drilling, rig instrumentation and data collection services, primarily driven by a strong Canadian market for directional drilling services as the number of horizontal and directional wells drilled increased substantially from 2004 to 2005, and (iii) increased margins 23 Table of Contents for our marine transportation and supply services driven by higher average dayrates during 2005 compared to 2004, primarily driven by an improvement in the offshore drilling market that resulted in increased demand for our services. OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION General and administrative expenses Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 General and administrative expenses $ 420,854 $ 249,973 $ 195,388 $ 170,881 68 % $ 54,585 28 % General and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenues 8.7 % 7.2 % 8.2 % 1.5 % 21 % (1.0 %) (12 %) General and administrative expenses increased from 2005 to 2006 primarily as a result of increases in wages and burden for a majority of our operating segments compared to the prior year period, which primarily resulted from an increase in the number of employees required to support the increase in activity levels and from higher wages, and increased corporate compensation expense, which primarily resulted from higher bonuses and non cash compensation expenses recorded for stock options and restricted stock grants during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior year period. The increase was also due to the $51.6 million additional compensation expense recorded during the fourth quarter of 2006 relating to the review of option granting practices performed by the Company as more fully described in Note 3. For the year ended December 31, 2006, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of operating revenues, increased compared to the prior period due to the reasons discussed above. General and administrative expenses increased from 2004 to 2005 primarily as a result of year over year increases in wages and burden for a majority of our operating segments, primarily resulting from an increase in the number of employees required to support the increase in activity levels and from higher wages, and increased corporate compensation expense, primarily resulting from taxes paid on stock options exercised, expenses recorded for restricted stock grants and higher bonuses during 2005. As a percentage of operating revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased from 2004 to 2005 as these expenses were spread over a larger revenue base. Depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Depreciation and amortization expense $ 371,127 $ 291,638 $ 254,939 $ 79,489 27 % $ 36,699 14 % Depletion expense $ 38,580 $ 46,894 $ 45,460 $ (8,314 ) (18 %) $ 1,434 3 % Depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 as a result of depreciation on capital expenditures made during 2004, 2005 and 2006, and year over year increases in average rig years for our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, Canadian land drilling and International operations. Depletion expense. Depletion expense decreased from 2005 to 2006 as a result of lower oil and gas production due to the payout of the El Paso Red River program in late 2005. These decreases were partially offset due to increases in depletion expense on non El Paso properties due to impairments of approximately $9.9 million. The impairments resulted from lower than expected performance of certain asset groups. Depletion expense increased from 2004 to 2005 as a result of production increases from new investments in oil and gas properties, which were almost entirely offset by the decline in production on oil and gas properties added through our El Paso investments in the fourth quarter of 2003. Interest expense Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Interest expense $ 46,561 $ 44,847 $ 48,507 $ 1,714 4 % $ (3,660 ) (8 %) 24 Table of Contents Interest expense increased from 2005 to 2006 as a result of the additional interest expense related to the issuance of the $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011. This increase was partially offset by interest expense reductions resulting from the redemption of 93% or $769.8 million of our $82.8 million zero coupon convertible senior debentures due 2021 on February 6, 2006. These zero coupon notes accreted at a rate of 2.5% per annum. See further discussion of these transactions in Note 9 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Interest expense decreased from 2004 to 2005 primarily as a result of the payment upon maturity of our 6.8% senior notes totaling $305.3 million in April 2004. Investment income Year Ended December 31, Increase (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Investment income $ 102,007 $ 85,430 $ 50,064 $ 16,577 19 % $ 35,366 71 % Investment income increased from 2005 to 2006 as a result of higher interest income earned on investments in cash and short term and long term investments due to rising interest rates and a higher average investment balance related to the proceeds from the issuance of the $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 received in May 2006. The proceeds from the note issuance were reduced by approximately $1.2 billion, which represents the cost of the purchase of the call options and the buy back of our stock, net of the sale of warrants. In addition, earnings on our long term investments increased during 2006 as compared to the prior year period. The increase was partially reduced in 2006 compared to the prior year periods by reduced gains realized from the sale of equity securities. Investment income increased from 2004 to 2005 as a result of (i) increased returns realized on our marketable security portfolios during 2005 compared to 2004, resulting from the positive impact of higher interest rates on our investments in interest bearing marketable debt securities, (ii) a gain realized upon the redemption of certain of our non marketable securities during 2005, and (iii) higher earnings on our non marketable securities accounted for under the equity method of accounting recorded during 2005. Gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In thousands, except percentages) 2006 2005 2004 2006 to 2005 2005 to 2004 Gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net $ (24,873 ) $ (46,440 ) $ 4,629 $ 21,567 46 % $ (51,069 ) N/M (1) (1) The percentage is so large that it is not meaningful. The amount of gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net for 2006 primarily includes losses on sales of long lived assets of approximately $21.6 million, of which approximately $12.4 million relates to asset impairment charges. The amounts of gains (losses) on sales of long lived assets, impairment charges and other income (expense), net for 2005 include (1) increases to litigation reserves of approximately $27.2 million during 2005, which primarily relates to the wage and hour claims litigation in our California well servicing business discussed in Note 14 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements, and (2) losses on long lived assets of approximately $18.8 million, which primarily consists of involuntary conversion losses recorded as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita during the third quarter of 2005 totaling approximately $7.8 million and net losses recorded on sales or retirements of other long lived assets during 2005 totaling approximately $11.1 million. Income tax rate Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Effective income tax rate 31 % 26 % 10 % 25 Table of Contents The increase in our effective income tax rate from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 resulted from a higher proportion of our taxable income being generated in the U.S. during 2006 compared to 2005 and during 2005 compared to 2004. Income generated in the U.S. is generally taxed at a higher rate than in international jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, our effective tax rate for 2006 was increased as a result of a $36.2 million current tax expense relating to the redemption of common shares held by a foreign parent of a U.S. based Nabors subsidiary and decreased by an approximate $20.5 million deferred tax benefit recorded as a result of changes in Canadian laws that incrementally reduce statutory tax rates for both federal and provincial taxes over the next four years. Our effective tax rate for 2004 decreased by the release of certain tax reserves, which were determined to no longer be necessary, resulting in a reduction in deferred income tax expense (non cash) totaling approximately $16.0 million. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. In October 2004 the U.S. Congress passed and the President signed into law the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act did not impact the corporate reorganization completed by Nabors effective June 24, 2002, that made us a foreign entity. It is possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could have an impact on our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings as a result of our corporate reorganization, depending on any responsive action taken by Nabors. We expect our effective tax rate during 2007 to be in the 30% 32% range because we expect a higher proportion of our income to be generated in the U.S. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Application of FIN 48 is required in financial statements effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2006. Under FIN 48, the financial statements will reflect expected future tax consequences of such positions presuming the taxing authorities full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts, but without considering time values. FIN 48 is likely to cause greater volatility in income statements as more items are recognized discretely within income tax expense. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows Our cash flows depend, to a large degree, on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Sustained increases or decreases in the price of natural gas or oil could have a material impact on these activities, and could also materially affect our cash flows. Certain sources and uses of cash, such as the level of discretionary capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, issuances and repurchases of debt and of our common shares are within our control and are adjusted as necessary based on market conditions. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $1.5 billion during 2006 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1.0 billion during 2005. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities from 2005 to 2006 was primarily attributable to the 57% increase in net income for fiscal 2006. During 2006 and 2005, net income was increased for non cash items such as depreciation and amortization, depletion, and deferred income tax expense and was reduced for changes in our working capital (primarily accounts receivable) and other balance sheet accounts. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities totaled $1.8 billion during 2006 compared to net cash used for investing activities of $958.2 million during 2005. During 2006 and 2005 cash was primarily used for capital expenditures. See a discussion of our expanded capital program discussed under Future Cash Requirements below. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $418.3 million during 2006 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $102.6 million during 2005. During 2006, cash was provided by approximately $2.72 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of the $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 by Nabors Delaware, our receipt of proceeds totaling $25.7 million from the exercise of options to acquire our common shares by our employees, and by approximately $421.2 million from the sale of the warrants. During 2006, cash was used for the purchase of call options in the amount of $583.6 million, the redemption of 93% of our zero coupon senior convertible debentures due 2021 for a total redemption price of $769.8 million and for repurchases of our common shares in the open market for $1.4 billion. During 2005, cash was provided by our receipt of proceeds totaling $194.5 million from the exercise of options to acquire our common shares by our employees and was used for the repurchase of our common shares in the open market totaling $99.5 million. 26 Table of Contents Future Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2006, we had long term debt, including current maturities, of $4.0 billion and cash and cash equivalents and investments of $1.7 billion. Nabors Delawares $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 provide that upon an exchange of these notes, it will be required to pay holders of the notes, in lieu of common shares, cash up to the principal amount of the notes and our common shares for any amount exceeding the principal amount of the notes required to be paid pursuant to the terms of the note indentures. The notes cannot be exchanged until the price of our shares exceeds approximately $59.57 for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous calendar quarter; or during the five business days immediately following any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of that period was less than 95% of the product of the sale price of Nabors common shares and the then applicable exchange rate; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions set forth in the indenture. The $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes provide that upon an exchange of these notes, we will be required to pay holders of the notes, in lieu of common shares, cash up to the principal amount of the notes and, at our option, consideration in the form of either cash or our common shares for any amount above the principal amount of the notes required to be paid pursuant to the terms of the note indentures. The notes cannot be exchanged until the price of our shares exceeds $42.06 for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous calendar quarter, or with respect to all calendar quarters beginning on or after July 1, 2008, $38.56 on such last trading day, or subject to certain exceptions, during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of that period was less than 95% of the product of the sale price of Nabors common shares and the then applicable exchange rate; or if Nabors Delaware calls the notes for redemption; or upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions described in the note indenture. See a detailed discussion of the terms of these notes included in Note 9 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding purchase commitments of approximately $567.4 million, primarily for rig related enhancing, construction and sustaining capital expenditures. Total capital expenditures over the next twelve months, including these outstanding purchase commitments, are currently expected to be approximately $1.7 $1.8 billion, including currently planned rig related enhancing, construction and sustaining capital expenditures. This amount could change significantly based on market conditions and new business opportunities. The level of our outstanding purchase commitments and our expected level of capital expenditures over the next twelve months represent a number of capital programs that are currently underway or planned. These programs will result in an expansion in the number of drilling and well servicing rigs that we own and operate and will consist primarily of land drilling and well servicing rigs. The increase in capital expenditures is expected across a majority of our operating segments, most significantly within our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, U.S. Land Well servicing, Canadian, and International operations. On September 22, 2006, we entered into an agreement with First Reserve Corporation to form a new joint venture, NFR Energy LLC, to invest in oil and gas exploration opportunities worldwide. First Reserve Corporation is a private equity firm specializing in the energy industry. Each party initially will hold an equal interest in the new entity and has committed to fund its proportionate share of $1.0 billion in equity. NFR Energy LLC will pursue development and exploration projects with both existing customers of ours and with other operators in a variety of forms including operated and non operated working interests, joint ventures, farm outs and acquisitions. NFR Energy LLC has not commenced operations and has not received funding as of December 31, 2006 by either party. We have historically completed a number of acquisitions and will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire assets or businesses to enhance our operations. Several of our previous acquisitions were funded through issuances of our common shares. Future acquisitions may be paid for using existing cash or issuance of debt or Nabors shares. Such capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our view of market conditions and other factors. See our discussion of guarantees issued by Nabors that could have a potential impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future periods included under Off Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees) below. The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2006: 27 Table of Contents Payments due by Period (In thousands) Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Thereafter Contractual cash obligations: Long term debt: Principal $ 4,014,557 $ $ 925,000 (1) $ 2,814,557 (2) $ 275,000 Interest 237,920 51,600 103,201 68,338 14,781 Operating leases (3) 31,863 10,324 13,154 6,377 2,008 Purchase commitments (4) 567,375 567,365 10 Employment contracts (3) 9,018 2,598 4,728 1,692 Pension funding obligations (5) 950 950 Total contractual cash obligations $ 4,861,683 $ 632,837 $ 1,046,093 $ 2,890,964 $ 291,789 (1) Represents the $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes, which can be put to us on June 15, 2008 and can be exchanged for cash in certain circumstances including when the price of our shares exceeds approximately $42.06 for the required period of time and also includes the $225 million senior notes due August 15, 2009. (2) Includes the $2.75 billion senior exchangeable notes due 2011 and the remainder of the $82 million zero coupon senior debentures due 2021, which can be put to us on February 5, 2011. (3) See Note 14 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. (4) Purchase commitments include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable pricing provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (5) See Note 12 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. In July 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to $500 million of our common shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. This program supersedes and cancels our previous share repurchase program. Through December 31, 2006, approximately $93.7 million of our common shares had been repurchased under this program. As of December 31, 2006, we had $406.3 million of shares that still may be purchased under the July 2006 share repurchase program. Financial Condition and Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, marketable and non marketable securities and cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents and investments of $1.7 billion (including $513.3 million of long term investments) and working capital of $1.7 billion. This compares to cash and cash equivalents and investments of $1.6 billion (including $222.8 million of long term investments) and working capital of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2005. Our funded debt to capital ratio was 0.50:1 as of December 31, 2006 and 0.32:1 as of December 31, 2005. Our net funded debt to capital ratio was 0.37:1 as of December 31, 2006 and 0.08:1 as of December 31, 2005. The gross funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing funded debt by funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. The net funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing net funded debt by net funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Net funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short term borrowings, (2) current portion of long term debt and (3) long term debt reduced by the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short term and long term investments. Capital is defined as shareholders equity. Both of these ratios are a method for calculating the amount of leverage a company has in relation to its capital. Long term investments consist of investments in overseas funds investing primarily in a variety of public and private U.S. and non U.S. securities (including asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities, global structured asset securitizations, whole loan mortgages, and participations in whole loans and whole loan mortgages). These investments are classified as non marketable, because they do not have published fair values. Our interest coverage ratio was 39.2:1 as of December 31, 2006, compared to 26.1:1 as of December 31, 2005. The interest coverage ratio is computed by calculating the sum of income before income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, and depletion expense less investment income and then dividing by interest expense. This ratio is a method for calculating the amount of operating cash flows available to cover interest expense. We have three letter of credit facilities with various banks as of December 31, 2006. Availability and borrowings under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: 28 Table of Contents (In thousands) Credit available $ 147,545 Letters of credit outstanding (108,580 ) Remaining availability $ 38,965 We have a shelf registration statement on file with the SEC to allow us to offer, from time to time, up to $700 million in debt securities, guarantees of debt securities, preferred shares, depository shares, common shares, share purchase contracts, share purchase units and warrants. We currently have not issued any securities registered under this registration statement. Our current cash and cash equivalents, investments in marketable and non marketable securities and projected cash flows generated from current operations are expected to more than adequately finance our purchase commitments, our debt service requirements, and all other expected cash requirements for the next twelve months. However, as discussed under Future Cash Requirements above, the $2.75 billion, 0.94% senior exchangeable notes and $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes can be exchanged when the price of our shares exceeds $59.57 and $42.06, respectively, for the required periods of time, resulting in our payment of the principal amount of the notes, or $2.75 billion and $700 million, respectively, in cash. On February 22, 2007, the market price for our shares closed at $30.58. If the market price threshold of $59.57 or $42.06 was exceeded and the notes were exchanged, the required cash payment could have a significant impact on our level of cash and cash equivalents and investments available to meet our other cash obligations. Nabors management believes that the holders of these notes would not be likely to exchange the notes as it would be more economically beneficial to them if they sold the notes on the open market. However, there can be no assurance that the holders would not exchange the notes. Further, management believes that we have the ability to access capital markets or otherwise obtain financing in order to satisfy any payment obligations that might arise upon exchange of these notes and that any cash payment due of this magnitude, in addition to our other cash obligations, will not ultimately have a material adverse impact on our liquidity or financial position. Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by Moodys Investor Service and Fitch Ratings, which are currently A3 and A , respectively, and our historical ability to access those markets as needed. See our discussion of the impact of changes in market conditions on our derivative financial instruments discussed under Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk below. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS (INCLUDING GUARANTEES) We are a party to certain transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements defined as off balance sheet arrangements that could have a material future effect on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. The most significant of these off balance sheet arrangements involve agreements and obligations in which we provide financial or performance assurance to third parties. Certain of these agreements serve as guarantees, including standby letters of credit issued on behalf of insurance carriers in conjunction with our workers compensation insurance program and other financial surety instruments such as bonds. We have also guaranteed payment of contingent consideration in conjunction with certain acquisitions in 2005 and 2006. Potential contingent consideration is based on future operating results of those businesses (Note 4). In addition, we have provided indemnifications to certain third parties which serve as guarantees. These guarantees include indemnification provided by Nabors to our share transfer agent and our insurance carriers. We are not able to estimate the potential future maximum payments that might be due under our indemnification guarantees. Management believes the likelihood that we would be required to perform or otherwise incur any material losses associated with any of these guarantees is remote. The following table summarizes the total maximum amount of financial and performance guarantees issued by Nabors: Maximum Amount (In thousands) 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Financial standby letters of credit and other financial surety instruments $ 102,356 $ 1,195 $ 100 $ 25 $ 103,676 Contingent consideration in acquisitions 10,297 1,063 1,063 2,124 14,547 Total $ 112,653 $ 2,258 $ 1,163 $ 2,149 $ 118,223 29 Table of Contents OTHER MATTERS Recent Legislation, Coast Guard Regulations and Actions Our Sea Mar division time charters supply vessels to offshore operators in U.S. waters. The vessels are owned by one of our financing company subsidiaries, but are operated and managed by a U.S. citizen controlled company pursuant to long term bareboat charters. As a result of recent legislation, beginning in August 2007, Sea Mar will no longer be able to use this arrangement to qualify vessels for employment in the U.S. coastwise trade. Accordingly, we will be required to restructure the arrangement, redeploy the vessels outside the United States, or sell the vessels by no later than such time. As of December 31, 2006, the net assets of Sea Mar totaled approximately $154.4 million. During 2006 Sea Mar had income before income taxes totaling $43.3 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, which prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. Under FIN 48, the financial statements will reflect expected future tax consequences of such positions presuming the taxing authorities full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts, but without considering time values. FIN 48 is likely to cause greater volatility in income statements as more items are recognized discretely within income tax expense. Application of FIN 48 is required in financial statements effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2006. FIN 48 revises disclosure requirements and will require an annual tabular roll forward of unrecognized tax benefits. We expect to adopt FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating the impact that this interpretation may have on our consolidated financial statements. Any adjustment required as a result of the adoption of FIN 48, which may be material, will be recorded to retained earnings. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This statement establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The provisions of SFAS 157 should be applied prospectively as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which SFAS 157 is initially applied, except in limited circumstances. We expect to adopt SFAS 157 beginning January 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact that this pronouncement may have on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). This statement requires companies to recognize a net liability or asset to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. SFAS 158 is required to be applied in financial statements effected for periods ending after December 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 158 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value and establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year that begins on or before November 15, 2007, provided the entity also elects to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157. We expect to adopt SFAS 159 beginning January 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact that this pronouncement may have on our consolidated financial statements. The Company has several stock based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described in Note 3 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for awards granted under those plans following the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Bulletin Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, (APB 25) and related interpretations. Under APB 25, no compensation expense is recognized when the option price is equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of award. We generally did not recognize compensation expense in connection with stock option awards to employees, directors and officers under our plans. See Note 3 and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Under the provisions of FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (SFAS 123), the pro forma effects on income for stock options were instead disclosed in a footnote to the financial statements. Compensation expense was recorded in the income statement for restricted stock awards over the vesting period of the award. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, (SFAS 123 R), using the modified prospective application 30 Table of Contents method. Under this transition method, the Company will record compensation expense for all stock option awards granted after the date of adoption and for the unvested portion of previously granted stock option awards that remain outstanding at the date of adoption. The amount of compensation cost recognized was based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123. Results for prior periods have not been restated. As a result of adopting SFAS 123 R on January 1, 2006, Nabors income before income taxes and net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $16.6 million, and $12.4 million lower, respectively, than if we had continued to account for share based compensation under APB 25. Basic and diluted earnings per share were $.04 and $.05 lower, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006 as a result of adopting SFAS 123 R. See the disclosures required upon adoption of SFAS 123 R in Note 3 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. Related Party Transactions Pursuant to his employment agreement entered into in October 1996, we provided an unsecured, non interest bearing loan of approximately $2.9 million to Nabors Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer. The loan was repaid to the Company on October 8, 2006. Pursuant to their employment agreements, Nabors and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, and certain other key employees entered into split dollar life insurance agreements pursuant to which we paid a portion of the premiums under life insurance policies with respect to these individuals and, in certain instances, members of their families. Under these agreements, we are reimbursed for such premiums upon the occurrence of specified events, including the death of an insured individual. Any recovery of premiums paid by Nabors could potentially be limited to the cash surrender value of these policies under certain circumstances. As such, the values of these policies are recorded at their respective cash surrender values in our consolidated balance sheets. We have made premium payments to date totaling $11.2 million related to these policies. The cash surrender value of these policies of approximately $10.3 million and $10.1 million is included in other long term assets in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the payment of premiums by Nabors under the agreements with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and with our Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer may be deemed to be prohibited loans by us to these individuals. We have paid no premiums related to our agreements with these individuals since the adoption of the Sarbanes Oxley Act and have postponed premium payments related to our agreements with these individuals. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into various rig leases, rig transportation and related oilfield services agreements with our Alaskan and Saudi Arabian unconsolidated affiliates at market prices. Revenues from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $99.2 million, $82.3 million and $63.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Expenses from business transactions with these affiliated entities totaled $4.7 million, $4.0 million and $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, we had accounts receivable from these affiliated entities of $41.2 million and $33.1 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We had accounts payable to these affiliated entities of $0.3 million and $2.2 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and long term payables with these affiliated entities of $6.6 million and $5.8 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which is included in other long term liabilities. Additionally, we own certain marine vessels that are chartered under a bareboat charter arrangement to Sea Mar Management LLC, an entity in which we own a 25% interest. Under the requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 46R this entity was consolidated by Nabors beginning in 2004. During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company entered into a transaction with Shona Energy Company, LLC (Shona), a company in which Mr. Payne, an outside director of the Company, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Pursuant to the transaction, a subsidiary of the Company acquired and holds a minority interest of less than 20% of the issued and outstanding common shares of Shona in exchange for certain rights derived from an oil and gas concession held by that subsidiary. Critical Accounting Estimates 31 Table of Contents The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. We analyze our estimates based on our historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, actual results could differ from such estimates. The following is a discussion of our critical accounting estimates. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and changes in the estimate or different estimates that could have been selected could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. For a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment The drilling, workover and well servicing industries are very capital intensive. Property, plant and equipment represented 59% of our total assets as of December 31, 2006, and depreciation constituted 11% of our total costs and other deductions for the year ended December 31, 2006. Depreciation for our primary operating assets, drilling and workover rigs, is calculated based on the units of production method over an approximate 4,900 day period, with the exception of our jack up rigs which are depreciated over an 8,030 day period, after provision for salvage value. When our drilling and workover rigs are not operating, a depreciation charge is provided using the straight line method over an assumed depreciable life of 20 years, with the exception of our jack up rigs, where a 30 year depreciable life is used. Depreciation on our buildings, well servicing rigs, oilfield hauling and mobile equipment, marine transportation and supply vessels, aircraft equipment, and other machinery and equipment is computed using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of the asset after provision for salvage value (buildings 10 to 30 years; well servicing rigs 3 to 15 years; marine transportation and supply vessels 10 to 25 years; aircraft equipment 5 to 20 years; oilfield hauling and mobile equipment and other machinery and equipment 3 to 10 years). These depreciation periods and the salvage values of our property, plant and equipment were determined through an analysis of the useful lives of our assets and based on our experience with the salvage values of these assets. Periodically, we review our depreciation periods and salvage values for reasonableness given current conditions. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is therefore based upon estimates of the useful lives and salvage value of those assets. Estimation of these items requires significant management judgment. Accordingly, management believes that accounting estimates related to depreciation expense recorded on property, plant and equipment are critical. There have been no factors related to the performance of our portfolio of assets, changes in technology or other factors that indicate that these lives do not continue to be appropriate. Accordingly, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, no significant changes have been made to the depreciation rates applied to property, plant and equipment, the underlying assumptions related to estimates of depreciation, or the methodology applied. However, certain events could occur that would materially affect our estimates and assumptions related to depreciation. Unforeseen changes in operations or technology could substantially alter managements assumptions regarding our ability to realize the return on our investment in operating assets and therefore affect the useful lives and salvage values of our assets. Impairment of Long Lived Assets As discussed above, the drilling, workover and well servicing industries are very capital intensive, which is evident in the fact that our property, plant and equipment represented 59% of our total assets as of December 31, 2006. Other long lived assets subject to impairment consist primarily of goodwill, which represented 4% of our total assets as of December 31, 2006. We review our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such assets may not be recoverable. In addition, we review goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, as required by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. An impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount of the long lived asset is not recoverable. Such determination requires us to make judgments regarding long term forecasts of future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review in order to determine the future cash flows associated with the asset or, in the case of goodwill, our reporting units. These long term forecasts are uncertain in that they require assumptions about demand for our products and services, future market conditions, technological advances in the industry, and changes in regulations governing the industry. Significant and unanticipated changes to the assumptions could require a provision for impairment in a future period. As the determination of whether impairment charges should be recorded on our long lived assets is subject 32 Table of Contents to significant management judgment and an impairment of these assets could result in a material charge on our consolidated statements of income, management believes that accounting estimates related to impairment of long lived assets are critical. Assumptions made in the determination of future cash flows are made with the involvement of management personnel at the operational level where the most specific knowledge of market conditions and other operating factors exists. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, no significant changes have been made to the methodology utilized to determine future cash flows. Given the nature of the evaluation of future cash flows and the application to specific assets and specific times, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the impact of changes in these assumptions. Income Taxes Deferred taxes represent a substantial liability for Nabors. For financial reporting purposes, management determines our current tax liability as well as those taxes incurred as a result of current operations yet deferred until future periods. In accordance with the liability method of accounting for income taxes as specified in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the provision for income taxes is the sum of income taxes both currently payable and deferred. Currently payable taxes represent the liability related to our income tax return for the current year while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities reported on our consolidated balance sheets. The tax effects of unrealized gains and losses on investments and derivative financial instruments are recorded through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within shareholders equity. The changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined based upon changes in differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the basis of assets and liabilities for tax purposes as measured by the enacted tax rates that management estimates will be in effect when these differences reverse. In addition to estimating the future tax rates applicable to the reversal of tax differences, management must also make certain assumptions regarding whether tax differences are permanent or temporary, management must estimate the timing of their reversal, and whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any gross deferred tax assets. Valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the need for valuation allowances, management has considered and made judgments and estimates regarding estimated future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. These judgments and estimates are made for each tax jurisdiction in which we operate as the calculation of deferred taxes is completed at that level. Further, under U.S. federal tax law, the amount and availability of loss carryforwards (and certain other tax attributes) are subject to a variety of interpretations and restrictive tests applicable to Nabors and our subsidiaries. The utilization of such carryforwards could be limited or effectively lost upon certain changes in ownership. Accordingly, although we believe substantial loss carryforwards are available to us, no assurance can be given concerning the realization of such loss carryforwards, or whether or not such loss carryforwards will be available in the future. These loss carryforwards are also considered in our calculation of taxes for each jurisdiction in which we operate. Additionally, we record reserves for uncertain tax positions which are subject to a significant level of management judgment related to the ultimate resolution of those tax positions. Accordingly, management believes that the estimate related to the provision for income taxes is critical to our results of operations. We have received notifications from the IRS on various matters as a result of IRS audits of certain tax years. See Item 1A. Risk Factors We may have additional tax liabilities and Note 10 under 
 
