ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Introduction Boston Scientific Corporation is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. Our business strategy is to lead global markets for less invasive medical devices by developing and marketing innovative products, services and therapies that address unmet patient needs, provide superior clinical outcomes and demonstrate compelling value. In the first quarter of 2008, we completed the divestiture of certain non strategic businesses. Our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007 include a full year of results of these businesses. Our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the results of these businesses through the date of separation. We are involved in several post closing separation activities through transition service agreements, some from which we continued to generate net sales during 2009. Many of these transition service agreements expired throughout 2009 and the remainder will be completed during the first half of 2010. Refer to the Restructuring Initiatives section and Note F Divestitures to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a description of these business divestitures. Executive Summary Financial Highlights and Trends Our net sales in 2009 were $8.188 billion, which included net sales from divested businesses of $11 million, as compared to net sales of $8.050 billion in 2008, which included net sales from divested business of $69 million, an increase of $138 million, or two percent. Foreign currency fluctuations decreased our net sales by $92 million in 2009, as compared to 2008. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and net sales from divested businesses, our net sales increased $288 million, or four percent, as compared to the prior year. Worldwide net sales in our cardiac rhythm management (CRM) group increased $123 million, or five percent in 2009, as compared to 2008. Excluding the negative impact of foreign currency, our worldwide CRM group net sales increased seven percent. This increase was driven by the continued success of our next generation COGNIS cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT D) and our TELIGEN implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) systems, launched in the U.S., our Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) region and certain Inter Continental countries in 2008 and in Japan in 2009, as well as growing adoption of our ALTRUA family of pacemaker systems, launched worldwide during 2008. In addition, worldwide net sales of our coronary stent systems increased $28 million, or two percent, on the success of our two drug platform strategy and industry leadership for the widest range of coronary stent sizes. We are the only company in the industry to offer a two drug platform strategy, which we believe has enabled us to maintain our leadership position in the worldwide drug eluting stent market. Worldwide net sales from our Endoscopy business grew $63 million, or seven percent, achieving net sales of $1.006 billion in 2009, on the continued success of our biliary and hemostasis franchises. Worldwide net sales from our Urology/Womens Health business grew $25 million, or six percent, due primarily to several successful product launches within our Womens Health franchise during the year. Our Neuromodulation division increased worldwide net sales $40 million, or 17 percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008, as a result of the continued adoption of our Precision Spinal Cord Stimulation system. Net sales from our Neurovascular business decreased $12 million, or three percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008, 38 Table of Contents but are expected to benefit from upcoming product launches in 2010. Refer to the Business and Market Overview and Results of Operations sections for discussion of our net sales by division and region. Our reported net loss in 2009 was $(1.025) billion, or $(0.68) per share, on approximately 1.5 billion weighted average shares outstanding, as compared to a net loss in 2008 of $(2.036) billion, or $(1.36) per share, also on 1.5 billion weighted average shares outstanding. Our reported results for 2009 included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition , divestiture , litigation and restructuring related net charges; and discrete tax items of $1.785 billion (after tax), or $1.18 per share, consisting of: $10 million ($12 million pre tax) of intangible asset impairment charges; $20 million ($21 million pre tax), of purchased research and development charges associated with the acquisition of certain technology rights; $7 million ($8 million pre tax) of gains on the sale of non strategic investments and other credits associated with prior period divestitures of non strategic businesses; $97 million ($130 million pre tax) of costs associated with our 2007 Restructuring plan and Plant Network Optimization program; $1.771 billion ($2.022 billion pre tax) of net charges associated with various litigation matters; and $106 million of discrete tax benefits related to certain tax positions associated with prior period acquisition , divestiture , litigation and restructuring related charges. On February 1, 2010, we announced the settlement of three patent litigation matters with Johnson Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. We have accounted for this settlement as of December 31, 2009 in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Refer to the Results of Operations section and Note L Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for further information. Our reported results for 2008 included goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition , divestiture , litigation and restructuring related net charges; and discrete tax items of $2.796 billion (after tax), or $1.87 per share, consisting of: $2.613 billion, on both a pre tax and after tax basis, of goodwill impairment charges, associated with our 2006 acquisition of Guidant Corporation; $143 million ($177 million pre tax) of other intangible asset impairment charges; a $184 million gain ($250 million pre tax) related to the receipt of an acquisition related milestone from Abbott Laboratories; $44 million ($43 million pre tax) of net purchased research and development charges, associated primarily with our acquisitions of Labcoat, Ltd. and CryoCor, Inc.; $100 million of costs ($133 million pre tax) associated with our 2007 Restructuring plan and Plant Network Optimization program; a $131 million net gain ($170 million pre tax), associated with the sale of certain non strategic businesses and investments; $238 million of litigation related charges ($334 million pre tax) resulting primarily from a ruling by a federal judge in a patent infringement case brought against us by Johnson Johnson; and $27 million of discrete tax benefits related to certain tax positions associated with prior period acquisition , divestiture , litigation , and restructuring related charges. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the decline in our stock price and our market capitalization created an indication of potential impairment of our goodwill balance. Therefore, we performed an interim impairment test and recorded a $2.613 billion goodwill impairment charge associated with our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. The impact of economic conditions, and the related increase in volatility in the equity and credit markets, on our risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital, along with reductions in market demand for products in our U.S. CRM reporting unit relative to our assumptions at the time of our acquisition of Guidant, were the key factors contributing to the 39 Table of Contents impairment charge. Refer to Note E Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Cash generated by operating activities was $835 million in 2009 and $1.216 billion in 2008, and continues to be a major source of funds for servicing our outstanding debt obligations and investing in our growth. Our cash flows from operations in 2009 includes a $716 million payment to Johnson Johnson related to certain patent disputes, discussed in Note L Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of $5.918 billion, cash and cash equivalents of $864 million and working capital of $1.039 billion. On February 1, 2010, we made a $1.000 billion litigation related payment to Johnson Johnson, using $800 million of cash on hand, and $200 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and will pay an additional $725 million on or before January 3, 2011. During 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of senior notes and prepaid all $2.825 billion remaining under our term loan. In addition, Standard Poors upgraded our credit rating to investment grade with a stable outlook. This rating improvement reflects the strength of our product portfolio, our commitment to debt reduction, our improving financial fundamentals, and the progress we are making in driving profitable sales growth. We expect to refinance the majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility by mid 2010. Healthcare Reform and Current Economic Climate Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost effective treatments. Although we believe our less invasive products and technologies generate favorable clinical outcomes, value and cost efficiency, the resources necessary to demonstrate comparative effectiveness may be significant. In addition, uncertainty remains regarding proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system, including the potential innovation tax on medical device companies. Additionally, our results of operations could be substantially affected by global economic factors and local operating and economic conditions. Our customers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or decision to purchase our products, particularly capital equipment, or to pay for our products they do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot predict to what extent global economic conditions and the increased focus on healthcare systems and costs in the U.S. and abroad may negatively impact our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins, procedural volumes and reimbursement rates from third party payors. Restructuring Initiatives We are a diversified worldwide medical device leader and hold number one or two positions in the majority of the markets in which we compete. Over the past thirty years, we have generated impressive revenue growth driven by product innovation, strategic acquisitions and robust investments in research and development. We generate strong cash flow, which has enabled us to reduce our debt obligations and further invest in our growth. On an on going basis, we monitor the dynamics of the economy, the healthcare industry, and the markets in which we compete; and we continue to assess opportunities for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency, and better alignment of expenses with revenues, while preserving our ability to make the investments in quality, research and development projects, capital and our people that are essential to our long term success. As a result of these assessments, we have undertaken various restructuring initiatives to focus our business, diversify and reprioritize our product 40 Table of Contents portfolio and redirect research and development and other spending toward higher payoff products in order to enhance our growth potential. These initiatives are described below. 2010 Restructuring Plan On February 6, 2010, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a series of management changes and restructuring initiatives (the 2010 Restructuring plan) designed to strengthen and position us for long term success. Key activities under the plan include the integration of our Cardiovascular and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate functions; the centralization of our research and development organization; the re alignment of our international structure, and the reprioritization and diversification of our product portfolio, in order to drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth and increase both accountability and shareholder value. Activities under the 2010 Restructuring Plan will be initiated in the first quarter of 2010 and are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2011. We expect the execution of the 2010 Restructuring plan will result in the elimination of approximately 1,000 to 1,300 positions worldwide by the end of 2011. Refer to Results of Operations and Note H Restructuring related Activities to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on our restructuring related activities and estimated costs. Plant Network Optimization In January 2009, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a Plant Network Optimization program, which is intended to simplify our manufacturing plant structure by transferring certain production lines among facilities and by closing certain other facilities. The program is a complement to our 2007 Restructuring plan, and is intended to improve overall gross profit margins. Activities under the Plant Network Optimization program were initiated in the first quarter of 2009 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2011. Refer to Results of Operations and Note H Restructuring related Activities to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on our restructuring related activities and estimated costs. 2007 Restructuring Plan In October 2007, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, an expense and head count reduction plan (the 2007 Restructuring plan), These initiatives were designed to enhance short and long term shareholder value, including the restructuring of several of our businesses and product franchises; the sale of non strategic businesses and investments; and significant expense and head count reductions. Our goal was, and continues to be, to better align expenses with revenues, while preserving our ability to make the investments in quality, research and development, capital improvements and our people that are essential to our long term success. These initiatives have helped to provide better focus on our core businesses and priorities, which we believe will strengthen Boston Scientific for the future and position us for increased, sustainable and profitable sales growth. The execution of this plan enabled us to reduce research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses by an annualized run rate of approximately $500 million exiting 2008, and resulted in the elimination of approximately 2,300 positions worldwide. We initiated activities under the plan in the fourth quarter of 2007 and substantially completed the major activities under the plan as of December 31, 2009. Refer to Results of Operations and Note H Restructuring related Activities to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on our restructuring related activities and estimated costs. Divestitures During 2007, we determined that our Auditory, Vascular Surgery, Cardiac Surgery, Venous Access and Fluid Management businesses, as well as our TriVascular Endovascular Aortic Repair (EVAR) program were no longer strategic to our on going operations. We completed the sale of these businesses in the first 41 Table of Contents quarter of 2008, receiving pre tax proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion, and eliminated 2,000 positions in connection with these divestitures. Refer to Results of Operations for more information. During 2007, we announced our intent to monetize those investments in our portfolio determined to be non strategic. During 2008, we entered transactions to sell the majority of our investments in, and notes receivable from, certain publicly traded and privately held entities, and received pre tax proceeds for investments sold of $149 million. During 2009, we completed the sale of our non strategic investments, and received additional proceeds of $45 million. In connection with our 2010 Restructuring plan and strategy to reduce risk, increase operational leverage and accelerate profitable growth, we may explore opportunities to divest one or more select businesses. Business and Market Overview Cardiac Rhythm Management We estimate that the worldwide CRM market, including Electrophysiology, approximated $12.6 billion in 2009, as compared to $12.2 billion in 2008. During the third quarter of 2009, results were published in the New England Journal of Medicine from the Boston Scientific sponsored MADIT CRT clinical trial, which provide evidence that Boston Scientifics CRT D therapy significantly reduces the relative risk of all cause mortality or first heart failure intervention when compared to traditional ICD therapy. These results demonstrated that early intervention with Boston Scientifics CRT D therapy in certain patients can slow the progression of heart failure. In addition, during the second quarter of 2009, we announced eight year follow up data from our MADIT II clinical study, which demonstrated that the life saving benefits of ICD therapy improved over time. We have completed a pre market approval filing with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for an expanded CRT D indication, and believe that we can reasonably expect FDA approval by mid 2010. We believe an expanded indication would create an opportunity to strengthen the CRM market and further enhance our position within that market. Our CRM group net sales represented approximately 31 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2009 and 2008. Our worldwide CRM group net sales increased $123 million, or five percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008. The following are the components of our worldwide CRM group net sales: Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) U.S. International Total U.S. International Total ICD systems $ 1,248 $ 544 $ 1,792 $ 1,140 $ 541 $ 1,681 Pacemaker systems 346 275 621 340 265 605 CRM products 1,594 819 2,413 1,480 806 2,286 Electrophysiology 116 33 149 116 37 153 Total CRM group $ 1,710 $ 852 $ 2,562 $ 1,596 $ 843 $ 2,439 Our U.S. CRM group net sales increased $114 million, or seven percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008. Our U.S. net sales benefited from the continued success of our next generation COGNIS CRT D and TELIGEN ICD systems, and our ALTRUA family of pacemaker systems, as well as marginal growth in the size of the U.S. CRM market. In 2010, we will continue to execute on our product pipeline and expect to launch our next generation line of defibrillators in the U.S. by the end of the year, which includes new features designed to improve functionality, diagnostic capability and ease of use, and anticipate launching our next generation INGENIO pacemaker system in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2011. Our international CRM group net sales increased $9 million, or one percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which contributed a negative $42 million to 42 Table of Contents 2009 CRM group net sales as compared to the prior year, international sales of our ICD systems (including CRT D systems) grew $31 million, or six percent, driven by the continued adoption of our COGNIS CRT D and TELIGEN ICD systems. Further, our international pacemaker system net sales increased $18 million, or seven percent, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, in 2009, as compared to 2008, driven primarily by growing adoption of our ALTRUA family of pacemakers. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we launched our COGNIS CRT D, TELIGEN ICD and ALTRUA pacemaker systems in Japan. We are targeting the completion of our international launch of these systems in early 2010. In addition, in July 2009, we received CE Mark approval for our LATITUDE Patient Management System and have begun a phased launch in certain European countries. The LATITUDE technology, which enables physicians to monitor device performance remotely while patients are in their homes, is a key component of many of our implantable device systems. We also plan to launch our next generation INGENIO pacemaker system in our EMEA region and certain Inter Continental countries in the first quarter of 2011, and in Japan in the fourth quarter of 2011, and believe that these launches position us well within the worldwide CRM market. Net sales from our CRM group represent a significant source of our overall net sales. Therefore, increases or decreases in our CRM group net sales could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Recent disciplinary actions we have taken against certain of our U.S. CRM sales personnel could result in lost U.S. CRM net sales in the short term. We believe that with sustained targeted investments we can continue to grow our worldwide CRM business. However, the following variables may impact the size of the CRM market and or our share of that market: future product field actions or new physician advisories by us or our competitors; the impact of market and economic conditions on average selling prices and the overall number of procedures performed; our ability to successfully launch next generation products and technology worldwide, and to effectively compete with new products available in the market; the ability of CRM manufacturers to maintain the trust and confidence of the implanting physician community, the referring physician community and prospective patients in CRM technologies the successful conclusion and variations in outcomes of on going and future clinical trials that may provide opportunities to expand indications for use and timely receipt of regulatory approvals to expand indications for use; variations in clinical results, reliability or product performance of our and our competitors products; delayed or limited regulatory approvals and unfavorable reimbursement policies; our ability to retain key members of our sales team and other key personnel, particularly following disciplinary actions taken during the year; and new competitive launches. Coronary Stents Net sales of our coronary stent systems represented approximately 23 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2009 and 2008. We estimate that the worldwide coronary stent market approximated $5.0 billion in 2009 and 2008. The size of the coronary stent market is driven primarily by the number of 43 Table of Contents percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures performed, as well as the percentage of those in which stents are implanted; the number of devices used per procedure; average selling prices; and the drug eluting stent penetration rate2. Historically, uncertainty regarding the efficacy of drug eluting stent systems, as well as the perceived risk of late stent thrombosis3 following the use of drug eluting stent systems, contributed to a decline in the worldwide drug eluting stent market size. However, data addressing this risk and supporting the safety of drug eluting stent systems positively affected trends in the growth of the drug eluting stent market throughout 2008 and 2009, as referring cardiologists regained and maintain confidence in this technology. We are the only company in the industry to offer a two drug platform strategy with our TAXUS paclitaxel eluting stent system and our everolimus product franchise, consisting of the PROMUS stent system, currently supplied to us by Abbott Laboratories, and our next generation internally manufactured everolimus eluting stent system, the PROMUS Element stent system, which we launched in our EMEA region and certain Inter Continental countries in the fourth quarter of 2009. We expect to launch our PROMUS Element stent system in the U.S. and Japan in mid 2012. Our product pipeline also includes the next generation TAXUS Element stent system, which we expect to launch in EMEA and certain Inter Continental countries during the second quarter of 2010, in the U.S. in mid 2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012. Recently published data from a single center, non double blinded, underpowered study sponsored by one of our competitors are inconsistent with the overall body of evidence supporting our TAXUS paclitaxel eluting coronary stent system. However, perceptions of these data have negatively affected, and may continue to have a negative impact on, physician and patient confidence in our technology and net sales of our TAXUS stent systems. The following are the components of our worldwide coronary stent system sales: Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) U.S. International Total U.S. International Total TAXUS $ 431 $ 596 $ 1,027 $ 621 $ 697 $ 1,318 PROMUS 480 201 681 212 104 316 Drug eluting 911 797 1,708 833 801 1,634 Bare metal 57 114 171 88 129 217 $ 968 $ 911 $ 1,879 $ 921 $ 930 $ 1,851 Our U.S. net sales of drug eluting stent systems increased $78 million, or nine percent, in 2009, as compared to the prior year. Despite an increase in competition following two new market entrants during 2008, we maintained our leadership position during 2009 with an estimated 49 percent share of the U.S. drug eluting stent market, exiting the year with an estimated 46 percent share during the fourth quarter of 2009. We believe we have maintained our position in this market due to the success of our two drug platform strategy. The strength of our TAXUS Libert stent system and the PROMUS stent system, as well as our TAXUS Express2 Atom stent system, launched in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2008, have combined to enable us to sustain our leadership in the U.S. drug eluting stent market. In the second quarter of 2009, we received FDA approval for the TAXUS Libert Atom stent system and, in July 2009, we received approval for the TAXUS Libert Long stent system, further adding to our industry leadership for the widest range of coronary stent sizes. In addition, increasing penetration rates have had a positive effect on the size of the U.S. drug eluting stent market and our net sales. Average drug eluting stent penetration rates in the U.S. were 75 percent during 2009, exiting at 77 percent for the fourth quarter of 2009, as compared to 68 percent for 2008, with an exit rate of 73 percent. Penetration rates in the U.S. consistently increased throughout 2008 and have remained steady throughout 2009, 2 A measure of the mix between bare metal and drug eluting stents used across procedures. 3 Late stent thrombosis is the formation of a clot, or thrombus, within the stented area one year or more after implantation of the stent. 44 Table of Contents indicating a recovery and stabilization of the U.S. drug eluting stent market. Partially offsetting the impact of increased penetration rates on the size of the market were reductions in average selling prices in 2009, as compared to 2008, as a result of competitive pricing pressures. We estimate that the average selling price of our drug eluting stent systems in the U.S. decreased approximately eight percent in 2009, as compared to the prior year. Our international drug eluting stent system net sales decreased $4 million, or less than one percent, in 2009 as compared to 2008, but were negatively impacted by $22 million, as compared to the same period in the prior year, as a result of foreign currency exchange rates. Within our international business, net sales of our drug eluting stent systems in Japan increased $45 million, or 20 percent, in 2009, as compared to the prior year, driven primarily by the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in that region, as well as the February launch of our second generation TAXUS Libert stent system. We estimate that our share of the drug eluting stent market in Japan was 49 percent in 2009, exiting at 44 percent, as compared to a 2008 average market share of 45 percent. Previously, our TAXUS drug eluting stent system was one of only two drug eluting stent products on the market in Japan. In May 2009, however, an additional competitor entered this market, which negatively impacted our share throughout the second half of the year. In the first quarter of 2010, we received approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) for the PROMUS stent, and subsequently launched this product in Japan. Our net sales of drug eluting stent systems in our EMEA region decreased $42 million, or eleven percent, and net sales of these systems in our Inter Continental region decreased $7 million, or three percent, both due primarily to the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates and reductions in our average selling prices. In November 2009, we announced receipt of CE Mark approval to market our next generation internally manufactured everolimus eluting stent system, the PROMUS Element stent system, and simultaneously launched this stent system in our EMEA region and certain Inter Continental countries. Our PROMUS Element stent system incorporates a unique platinum chromium alloy offering greater radial strength and flexibility than older alloys, and provides enhanced visibility and reduced recoil. The innovative stent design improves deliverability and allows for more consistent lesion coverage and drug distribution. This latest product offering demonstrates our commitment to drug eluting stent market leadership and continued innovation. Our product pipeline also includes the next generation TAXUS Element stent system, which we expect to launch in EMEA and certain Inter Continental countries during the first half of 2010, in the U.S. in mid 2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012. We market the PROMUS everolimus eluting coronary stent system, a private labeled XIENCE V stent system supplied to us by Abbott Laboratories. As of the closing of Abbotts 2006 acquisition of Guidant Corporations vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, we obtained a perpetual license to the intellectual property used in Guidants drug eluting stent system program purchased by Abbott. We believe that being the only company to offer two distinct drug eluting stent platforms provides us a considerable advantage in the drug eluting stent market and has enabled us to sustain our worldwide leadership position, with an estimated 39 percent market share exiting 2009. However, under the terms of our supply arrangement with Abbott, the gross profit and operating profit margin of everolimus eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott, including any improvements or iterations approved for sale during the term of the applicable supply arrangements and of the type that could be approved by a supplement to an approved FDA pre market approval, is significantly lower than that of our TAXUS stent system. Specifically, the PROMUS stent system has operating profit margins that approximate half of our TAXUS stent system operating profit margin. Therefore, if sales of everolimus eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott increase in relation to our total drug eluting stent system sales, our profit margins will decrease. Refer to our Gross Profit discussion for more information on the impact this sales mix has had on our gross profit margins. We expect that our PROMUS ElementTM stent system, launched in our EMEA region and certain Inter Continental countries in November 2009, will have gross profit margins more comparable to our TAXUS stent system and will positively affect our overall gross profit and operating profit margins in these regions. However, this positive impact on our 45 Table of Contents gross profit margin will be offset by the impact of recent approval and launch of the PROMUS stent system, supplied to us by Abbott, in Japan. Further, the price we pay for our supply of everolimus eluting stent systems from Abbott is determined by contracts with Abbott and is based, in part, on previously fixed estimates of Abbotts manufacturing costs for everolimus eluting stent systems and third party reports of our average selling price of these stent systems. Amounts paid pursuant to this pricing arrangement are subject to a retroactive adjustment approximately every two years based on Abbotts actual costs to manufacture these stent systems for us and our average selling price of everolimus eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott. Our gross profit margin may be positively or negatively impacted in the future as a result of this adjustment process. We are currently reliant on Abbott for our supply of everolimus eluting stent systems in the U.S. and Japan. Our supply agreement with Abbott for everolimus eluting stent systems in these regions extends through the end of the second quarter of 2012. At present, we believe that our supply of everolimus eluting stent systems from Abbott and our current launch plans for our next generation internally manufactured everolimus eluting stent system is sufficient to meet customer demand. However, any production or capacity issues that affect Abbotts manufacturing capabilities or our process for forecasting, ordering and receiving shipments may impact the ability to increase or decrease our level of supply in a timely manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott may not align with customer demand, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We expect to launch an internally developed and manufactured next generation everolimus eluting stent system, our PROMUS Element stent system, in the U.S. and Japan in mid 2012. Historically, the worldwide coronary stent market has been dynamic and highly competitive with significant market share volatility. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations and trial end points. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the markets perception of these clinical data, may adversely impact our position in, and share of the drug eluting stent market and may contribute to increased volatility in the market. We believe that we can sustain our leadership position within the worldwide drug eluting stent market for a variety of reasons, including: our two drug eluting stent platform strategy, including specialty stent sizes; the broad and consistent long term results of our TAXUS clinical trials, and the favorable results of the XIENCE V/PROMUS stent system clinical trials to date; the performance benefits of our current and future technology; the strength of our pipeline of drug eluting stent products, including our PROMUS Element and TAXUS Element stent systems; our overall position in the worldwide interventional medicine market and our experienced interventional cardiology sales force; and the strength of our clinical, selling, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. However, a decline in net sales from our drug eluting stent systems could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and operating cash flows. The most significant variables that may impact the size of the drug eluting stent market and our position within this market include: 46 Table of Contents our ability to successfully launch next generation products and technology features, including the PROMUS Element and TAXUS Element stent systems; the impact of competitive pricing pressure on average selling prices of drug eluting stent systems available in the market; the outcomes of on going and future clinical results involving our products, including those sponsored by our competitors, or perceived product performance of our or our competitors products; delayed or limited regulatory approvals and unfavorable reimbursement policies; the outcome of intellectual property litigation; changes in FDA clinical trial data and post market surveillance requirements, as well as international regulatory requirements, and the associated impact on new product launch schedules and the cost of product approvals and compliance; and physician and patient confidence in our current and next generation technology, including drug eluting stent technology; and changes in drug eluting stent penetration rates, the overall number of PCI procedures performed and average number of stents used per procedure. During 2009, we successfully negotiated closure of several long standing legal matters, including multiple matters with Johnson Johnson; all outstanding litigation between us and Medtronic, Inc. with respect to interventional cardiology and endovascular repair cases; and all outstanding litigation between us and Bruce Saffran, M.D., Ph.D. However, there continues to be significant intellectual property litigation in the coronary stent market. In particular, although our recent settlements with Johnson Johnson resolved 17 litigation matters, we continue to be involved in patent litigation with Johnson Johnson relating to drug eluting stent delivery systems. We have each asserted that products of the other infringe patents owned or exclusively licensed by each of us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell certain products and on our operating margins, financial position, results of operation or liquidity. See Note L Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a description of these legal proceedings. Interventional Cardiology (excluding coronary stent systems) In addition to coronary stent systems, our Interventional Cardiology business markets balloon catheters, rotational atherectomy systems, guide wires, guide catheters, embolic protection devices, and diagnostic catheters used in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures; as well as ultrasound imaging systems. Our worldwide net sales of these products decreased to $980 million in 2009, as compared to $1.028 billion in 2008, a decrease of $48 million or five percent. Our U.S. net sales represented $409 million in 2009, as compared to $461 million in the prior year, a decrease of $52 million or 11 percent. This decrease was the result of a delay in new product introductions, and competitive product launches, as well as the impact of product recalls associated with a third party provider. Our international net sales of these products increased to $571 million in 2009, as compared to $567 million in 2008. Despite an overall decrease in our Interventional Cardiology net sales, we continue to hold a strong leadership position in the PTCA balloon catheter market with more than 50 percent share of the U.S. market, and are planning a number of additional new product launches during 2010, including the 47 Table of Contents Apex platinum pre dilatation balloon catheter for improved radiopacity, the NC Quantum Apex post dilatation balloon catheter and the Kinetix family of guidewires. Peripheral Interventions Our Peripheral Interventions business product offerings include stents, balloon catheters, sheaths, wires and vena cava filters, which are used to diagnose and treat peripheral vascular disease. Our worldwide net sales of these products decreased to $661 million in 2009, as compared to $684 million in 2008, a decrease of $23 million or three percent. Foreign currency exchange rates contributed a negative $10 million to our 2009 Peripheral Interventions net sales, as compared to the same period in the prior year. We believe that we are well positioned in the growing Peripheral Interventions market, due in part to the recent launches of our Carotid WALLSTENT Monorail Endoprosthesis for the treatment of patients with carotid artery disease who are at high risk for surgery; our Express SD Renal Monorail premounted stent system for use as an adjunct therapy to percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty in certain lesions of the renal arteries; and our Sterling Monorail and Over the Wire balloon dilatation catheter for use in the renal and lower extremity arteries. In addition, during the first quarter of 2010, we expect to receive FDA approval for an iliac indication for our Express LD stent system. We believe that these product offerings will continue to provide positive momentum for our Peripheral Interventions business. Endoscopy Our Endoscopy division develops and manufactures devices to treat a variety of medical conditions including diseases of the digestive and pulmonary systems. Our worldwide net sales of these products increased $63 million, or seven percent, to $1.006 billion in 2009, as compared to $943 million in 2008. Our U.S. net sales of these products increased $40 million to $517 million, as compared to the same period in the prior year, and our international net sales increased $23 million, despite an $11 million negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates, to $489 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, our worldwide Endoscopy net sales increased eight percent in 2009, as compared to 2008. This increase was due primarily to higher net sales within our stent franchise, due largely to the U.S. launch of the WallFlex biliary stent system and continued commercialization of the WallFlex esophageal stent. In addition, our hemostasis franchise net sales benefited from increased utilization of our Resolution Clip Device, an endoscopic mechanical clip to treat gastrointestinal bleeding, and our biliary franchise drove solid growth on the strength of our rapid exchange biliary devices. During 2010, we will continue the commercialization of our market leading WallFlex stent line; our Dreamwire high performance guidewire and Dreamtome RX cannulating sphincterotome; as well as expanded sizes of our Radial Jaw 4 biopsy forceps. Urology/Womens Health Our Urology/Womens Health division develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological and gynecological disorders. Our worldwide net sales of these products increased $25 million, or six percent, to $456 million in 2009. Our U.S. net sales increased $18 million during 2009, as compared to the prior year, to $353 million, and our international net sales increased $7 million, as compared to 2008, to $103 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, net sales of our Urology/Womens Health products increased $27 million, or six percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008, and were negatively impacted by a July 2009 recall related to catheters used in our Prolieve Thermodilatation System for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. This recall had a negative impact of approximately $8 million resulting from estimated lost sales. The product issue that resulted in this recall has been corrected, and we re launched the new catheter in November 2009. We do not expect that this recall will have a material future impact on our Urology/Womens Health net sales. Our Womens Health business grew approximately 19 percent in 2009, as compared to the prior year, on the strength of several new product launches, including our Solyx single incision sling system and our Uphold vaginal support system. In 48 Table of Contents addition, we executed two new Womens Health product launches during 2009 with our second generation ProCerva Hydro ThermAblator (HTA) procedure set, used in the treatment of excessive uterine bleeding, as well as our new Pinnacle posterior pelvic floor repair kit. We expect these launches to continue to drive growth in our Womens Health business. Neuromodulation Within our Neuromodulation business, we market the Precision Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) system, used for the management of chronic pain. Our worldwide net sales of Neuromodulation products increased to $285 million for 2009, as compared to $245 million for 2008, an increase of $40 million or approximately 17 percent. Our U.S. net sales of Neuromodulation products were $271 million for 2009, as compared to $234 million in the prior year. We believe that we continue to have a technology advantage over our competitors with proprietary features such as Multiple Independent Current Control, which is intended to allow the physician to target specific areas of pain more precisely. As a demonstration of our commitment to strengthening clinical evidence with spinal cord stimulation, we are initiating a trial to assess the therapeutic effectiveness and cost effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation compared to reoperation in patients with failed back surgery syndrome. We believe that this trial could result in consideration of spinal cord stimulation much earlier in the continuum of care. In addition, we anticipate the launch of two new lead products during 2010. These factors, coupled with the move of our Neuromodulation business to a new state of the art facility, position us well for continued growth in this market. Neurovascular We market a broad line of products used in treating diseases of the neurovascular system and hold leading market positions in several product markets. Our worldwide net sales of Neurovascular products decreased to $348 million in 2009, as compared to $360 million for 2008, a decrease of $12 million, or three percent, resulting primarily from new competitive launches and a delay in the launch of our next generation products. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates contributed a negative $4 million to our worldwide Neurovascular sales in 2009, as compared to 2008. We plan to launch a next generation family of detachable coils, including an enhanced delivery system designed to reduce coil detachment times, in the U.S. in 2010. Within our product pipeline, we are also developing next generation technologies for the treatment of aneurysms, ICAD and acute ischemic stroke, and are involved in numerous clinical activities that are designed to expand the size of the worldwide Neurovascular market. Innovation Our approach to innovation combines internally developed products and technologies with those we may obtain externally through strategic acquisitions and alliances. Our research and development efforts are focused largely on the development of next generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and divisions. We expect to continue to invest in our core franchises and are also investigating opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into, areas including atrial fibrillation, underserved defibrillator populations, acute ischemic stroke, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, structural heart disease, vascular closure, hypertension, womens health, endoluminal surgery, diabetes/obesity, endoscopic pulmonary intervention and deep brain stimulation. There can be no assurance that these technologies will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approvals or gain market acceptance. A delay in the development or approval of these technologies may adversely impact our future growth. We have historically entered strategic alliances with both publicly traded and privately held companies. We enter these alliances to broaden our product technology portfolio and to strengthen and expand our reach into existing and new markets. During 2008, we monetized certain investments and alliances no longer determined to be strategic (see the Restructuring Initiatives section for more information). While we 49 Table of Contents believe our remaining strategic investments are within attractive markets with an outlook for sustained growth, the full benefit of these alliances is highly dependent on the strength of the other companies underlying technology and ability to execute. An inability to achieve regulatory approvals and launch competitive product offerings, or litigation related to these technologies, among other factors, may prevent us from realizing the benefit of these strategic alliances. Certain of our equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the future. Any potential future acquisitions we consummate may be dilutive to our earnings and may require additional debt or equity financing, depending on their size and nature. Regulatory Compliance In January 2006, legacy Boston Scientific received a corporate warning letter from the FDA notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three of our facilities and advising us that our corporate wide corrective action plan relating to three site specific warning letters issued to us in 2005 was inadequate. We have identified solutions to the quality system issues cited by the FDA and have made significant progress in transitioning our organization to implement those solutions. During 2008, the FDA reinspected a number of our facilities and, in October 2008, informed us that our quality system is now in substantial compliance with its Quality System Regulations. The FDA has approved all of our requests for final approval of Class III product submissions previously on hold due to the corporate warning letter and is processing all requests for Certificates to Foreign Governments (CFGs). In November of 2009 and January of 2010, the FDA reinspected two official action indicated Boston Scientific sites to follow up on observations from the 2008 FDA inspections. Both of these FDA inspections confirmed that all issues at the sites have been resolved and all restrictions related to the corporate warning letter have been removed. The corporate warning letter remains in place pending FDA internal administrative procedures. During the first quarter of 2009, we acquired a third party sterilization facility which was subject to a warning letter from the FDA. The FDA had requested documentation and explanations regarding various corrective actions related to the facility. This information was provided to the FDA and the FDA has since re inspected the facility, issuing no observations, and subsequently removed all restrictions related to the warning letter. Other Governmental Matters Certain state governments have recently enacted, and the federal government has proposed, legislation aimed at increasing transparency in relationships between industry and health care professionals (HCPs). As a result, we are required by law to report many types of direct and indirect payments and other transfers of value to HCPs licensed by certain states and expect that we will have to make similar reports at the federal level in the near future. We are devoting substantial time and financial resources in order to develop and implement enhanced structure, policies, systems and processes in order to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements. Our new systems are designed to provide enhanced visibility and consistency across our businesses with respect to our interactions with health care professionals. Implementation of these policies, systems and processes, or failure to comply with these policies could have a negative impact our results of operations. Reimbursement and Funding Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers worldwide that typically bill various third party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care programs for the healthcare services provided to their patients. Third party payors may provide or deny coverage for certain technologies and associated procedures based on independently determined assessment criteria. Reimbursement by third party payors for these services is based on a wide range of methodologies that may reflect the services 50 Table of Contents assessed resource costs, clinical outcomes and economic value. These reimbursement methodologies confer different, and sometimes conflicting, levels of financial risk and incentives to HCPs and patients, and these methodologies are subject to frequent refinements. Third party payors are also increasingly adjusting reimbursement rates and challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. There can be no assurance that our products will be automatically covered by third party payors, that reimbursement will be available or, if available, that the third party payors coverage policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Accordingly, the outcome of these reimbursement decisions could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, the current economic climate may impose further pressure on funds available for reimbursement of healthcare and on reimbursement levels. Manufacturing and Raw Materials We design and manufacture the majority of our products in technology centers around the world. Many components used in the manufacture of our products are readily fabricated from commonly available raw materials or off the shelf items available from multiple supply sources. Certain items are custom made to meet our specifications. We believe that in most cases, redundant capacity exists at our suppliers and that alternative sources of supply are available or could be developed within a reasonable period of time. We also have an on going program to identify single source components and to develop alternative back up supplies. However, in certain cases, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers for specific components, materials or products, largely due to the regulatory approval system and the complex nature of our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in supply, an inability to develop and validate alternative sources if required, or a significant increase in the price of raw materials, components or products could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly materials or components related to our CRM products and drug eluting stent systems. In addition, our products require sterilization prior to sale and we utilize a mix of internal resources and third party vendors to perform this service. To the extent our sterilizers are unable to process our products, whether due to raw material, capacity, regulatory or other constraints, we may be unable to transition to other providers in a timely manner, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. International Markets Our profitability from our international operations may be limited by risks and uncertainties related to economic conditions in these regions, currency fluctuations, regulatory and reimbursement approvals, competitive offerings, infrastructure development, rights to intellectual property and our ability to implement our overall business strategy. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we conduct international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. International markets, including Japan, are affected by economic pressure to contain reimbursement levels and healthcare costs. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are under way in many countries in which we do business. Implementation of cost containment initiatives and healthcare reforms in significant markets such as Japan, Europe and other international markets may limit the price of, or the level at which reimbursement is provided for, our products and may influence a physicians selection of products used to treat patients. We expect these practices to put increased pressure on reimbursement rates in these markets. In addition, most international jurisdictions have adopted regulatory approval and periodic renewal requirements for medical devices, and we must comply with these requirements in order to market our products in these jurisdictions. Further, some emerging markets rely on the FDAs CFGs in lieu of their own regulatory approval requirements. Although the corporate warning letter has not been formally resolved, the FDA has approved all currently eligible requests for CFGs. However, any limits on our 51 Table of Contents ability to market our full line of existing products and to launch new products within these jurisdictions could have an adverse impact on our business. Results of Operations Net Sales We manage our international operating segments on a constant currency basis, and we manage market risk from currency exchange rate changes at the corporate level. To calculate revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of currency exchange, we convert current period and prior period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using current period currency exchange rates. The regional constant currency growth rates in the tables below can be recalculated from our net sales by reportable segment as presented in Note P Segment Reporting to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. We exclude net sales related to divested businesses from the net sales of our reportable segments. During the first quarter of 2009, we reorganized our international structure to provide more direct sales focus in the marketplace. Accordingly, we have revised our reportable segments to reflect the way we currently manage and view our business. As of December 31, 2009, we had four reportable segments based on geographic regions: the United States; EMEA, consisting of Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Japan; and Inter Continental, consisting of Asia Pacific and the Americas. The reportable segments represent an aggregate of all operating divisions within each segment. We have reclassified previously reported segment results to be consistent with the 2009 presentation. The following table provides our worldwide net sales by region and the relative change on an as reported and constant currency basis: 2009 versus 2008 2008 versus 2007 As Reported Constant As Reported Constant Year Ended December 31, Currency Currency Currency Currency (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Basis Basis Basis Basis United States $ 4,675 $ 4,487 $ 4,522 4 % 4 % (1 )% (1 )% EMEA 1,837 1,960 1,833 (6 )% 1 % 7 % 2 % Japan 988 861 797 15 % 4 % 8 % (2 )% Inter Continental 677 673 652 1 % 8 % 3 % (1 )% International 3,502 3,494 3,282 0 % 3 % 6 % 0 % Subtotal 8,177 7,981 7,804 2 % 4 % 2 % 0 % Divested businesses 11 69 553 N/A N/A N/A N/A Worldwide $ 8,188 $ 8,050 $ 8,357 2 % 3 % (4 )% (6 )% The following table provides our worldwide net sales by division and the relative change on an as reported and constant currency basis. During the first quarter of 2009, we combined our Peripheral Embolization business, previously a component of our Neurovascular division, with our Peripheral Interventions business. We have reclassified previously reported 2008 and 2007 results to be consistent with the 2009 presentation. 52 Table of Contents 2009 versus 2008 2008 versus 2007 As Reported Constant As Reported Constant Currency Currency Currency Currency (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Basis Basis Basis Basis Cardiac Rhythm Management $ 2,413 $ 2,286 $ 2,124 6 % 7 % 8 % 5 % Electrophysiology 149 153 147 (2 )% (1 )% 4 % 2 % Cardiac Rhythm Management Group 2,562 2,439 2,271 5 % 7 % 7 % 5 % Interventional Cardiology 2,859 2,879 3,016 (1 )% 0 % (5 )% (7 )% Peripheral Interventions 661 684 692 (3 )% (2 )% (1 )% (5 )% Cardiovascular Group 3,520 3,563 3,708 (1 )% 0 % (4 )% (7 )% Neurovascular 348 360 352 (3 )% (2 )% 2 % (3 )% Endoscopy 1,006 943 866 7 % 8 % 9 % 6 % Urology/Womens Health 456 431 403 6 % 6 % 7 % 6 % Endosurgery Group 1,462 1,374 1,269 6 7 % 8 % 6 % Neuromodulation 285 245 204 17 % 17 % 20 % 20 % Subtotal 8,177 7,981 7,804 2 % 4 % 2 % % Divested businesses 11 69 553 N/A N/A N/A N/A Worldwide $ 8,188 $ 8,050 $ 8,357 2 % 3 % (4 )% (6 )% The divisional constant currency growth rates in the tables above can be recalculated from the reconciliations provided below. Growth rates are based on actual, non rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely. 2009 Net Sales as compared to 2008 Change Estimated As Reported Constant Impact of Currency Currency Foreign in millions Basis Basis Currency Cardiac Rhythm Management $ 127 $ 168 $ (41 ) Electrophysiology (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) Cardiac Rhythm Management Group 123 165 (42 ) Interventional Cardiology (20 ) 2 (22 ) Peripheral Interventions (23 ) (13 ) (10 ) Cardiovascular Group (43 ) (11 ) (32 ) Neurovascular (12 ) (8 ) (4 ) Endoscopy 63 74 (11 ) Urology/Womens Health 25 27 (2 ) Endosurgery Group 88 101 (13 ) Neuromodulation 40 41 (1 ) Subtotal 196 288 (92 ) Divested Businesses (58 ) (58 ) 0 Worldwide $ 138 $ 230 $ (92 ) 53 Table of Contents 2008 Net Sales as compared to 2007 Change Estimated As Reported Constant Impact of Currency Currency Foreign in millions Basis Basis Currency Cardiac Rhythm Management $ 162 $ 114 $ 48 Electrophysiology 6 3 3 Cardiac Rhythm Management Group 168 117 51 Interventional Cardiology (137 ) (219 ) 82 Peripheral Interventions (8 ) (33 ) 25 Cardiovascular Group (145 ) (252 ) 107 Neurovascular 8 (8 ) 16 Endoscopy 77 49 28 Urology/Womens Health 28 23 5 Endosurgery Group 105 72 33 Neuromodulation 41 40 1 Subtotal 177 (31 ) 208 Divested Businesses (484 ) (489 ) 5 Worldwide $ (307 ) $ (520 ) $ 213 U.S. Net Sales During 2009, our U.S. net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, increased $188 million, or four percent, as compared to 2008. The increase was driven primarily by an increase in U.S. CRM group sales of $114 million and an increase of $47 million in U.S. sales of our coronary stent systems. In addition, U.S. sales in our Endosurgery group grew $58 million in 2009, as compared to the prior year, and our Neuromodulation division increased U.S. net sales $37 million. These increases were partially offset by declines in U.S. net sales from our Interventional Cardiology (excluding coronary stent systems) business of $52 million and a decrease of $16 million in Peripheral Interventions U.S. net sales in 2009, as compared to the prior year. Refer to the Business and Market Overview section for a more detailed discussion of our net sales by U.S. division. During 2008, our U.S. net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, decreased $35 million, or one percent, as compared to 2007. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in Cardiovascular division sales of $222 million, driven primarily by declines in sales of our drug eluting stent systems as a result of increased competition. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in CRM product sales of $109 million, as a result of numerous successful product launches during 2008. In addition, U.S. sales in our Endosurgery division grew $43 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, driven by strength in our biliary and hemostasis franchises, and our Neuromodulation division increased sales by $36 million, due to market growth and continued physician adoption of our Precision Plus spinal cord stimulation technology. International Net Sales During 2009, our international net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, increased $8 million, or less than one percent, as compared to 2008. Foreign currency exchange rates contributed a negative $92 million to our international net sales, excluding divested businesses, as compared to the prior year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and net sales from divested businesses, net sales in our EMEA region increased $11 million, or one percent, in 2009, as compared the prior year. Our net sales in Japan increased $37 million, or four percent, excluding the impact of foreign 54 Table of Contents currency exchange rates and net sales from divested businesses, in 2009, as compared to 2008, due primarily to an increase in coronary stent system sales following the launch of our second generation TAXUS Libert stent system in that region. Net sales in our Inter Continental region, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and net sales from divested businesses, increased $52 million, or eight percent, in 2009, as compared to the prior year, with the majority of our divisions and franchises contributing to the year over year growth. Refer to the Business and Market Overview section for a more detailed discussion of our net sales by division. During 2008, our international net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, increased $212 million, or six percent, as compared to 2007. The increase was attributable primarily to the favorable impact of currency exchange rates, which contributed $208 million to our international net sales, excluding sales from divested businesses. Within our international business, sales in our Cardiovascular division increased $77 million and CRM product sales increased $53 million. In addition, sales in our Endosurgery franchises increased $63 million in 2008, as compared to 2007. Gross Profit Our gross profit was $5.612 billion in 2009, $5.581 billion in 2008, and $6.015 billion in 2007. As a percentage of net sales, our gross profit decreased to 68.5 percent in 2009, as compared to 69.3 percent in 2008 and 72.0 percent in 2007. The following is a reconciliation of our gross profit margins and a description of the drivers of the change from period to period: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Gross profit prior year 69.3 % 72.0 % Impact of shift in TAXUS/ PROMUS sales mix (1.4 )% (2.3 )% All other shifts in product sales mix (0.2 )% Net impact of foreign currency 0.9 % (0.5 )% Impact of higher inventory charges (0.4 )% Impact of lower Project Horizon spend 0.7 % All other (0.3 )% Gross profit current year 68.5 % 69.3 % The primary factor contributing to a shift in product sales mix toward lower margin products in 2009, as compared to 2008, and 2008, as compared to 2007, was a decrease in sales of our higher margin TAXUS drug eluting stent systems. The shift in sales away from TAXUS stent systems was due primarily to increased sales of the PROMUS stent system in the U.S., following its July 2008 approval and launch. Sales of the PROMUS stent system represented approximately 40 percent of our worldwide drug eluting stent system sales in 2009, 19 percent in 2008, and two percent in 2007. Under the terms of our supply arrangement with Abbott, the gross profit margin of a PROMUS stent system, supplied to us by Abbott, is significantly lower than that of our TAXUS stent system. Our gross profit margin for 2009, as compared to the prior year, was also positively impacted by 0.9 percentage points attributable to the settlement of foreign currency hedge contracts on intercompany and third party transactions. The settlement of these contracts had a negative impact on our gross profit margin of 0.5 percentage points in 2008, as compared to 2007. In addition, our gross profit margins decreased by 0.4 percentage points in 2008, as compared to 2007, due to increases in period expenses associated with inventory charges. Inventory and manufacturing equipment obsolescence charges in 2009 were relatively flat to 2008, and included approximately $40 million of inventory write downs and manufacturing equipment obsolescence write offs within our CRM division, related primarily to the resolution of a product advisory that resulted in the transition to a new version of our COGNIS CRT D and TELIGEN ICD system product offerings. Further, our gross profit margin in 2008 benefited from lower spending associated with Project Horizon, our corporate wide 55 Table of Contents initiative to improve and harmonize our overall quality processes and systems, which ended as a formal program as of December 31, 2007. Operating Expenses The following table provides a summary of certain of our operating expenses: 2009 2008 2007 % of Net % of Net % of Net (in millions) $ Sales $ Sales $ Sales Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,635 32.2 2,589 32.2 2,909 34.8 Research and development expenses 1,035 12.6 1,006 12.5 1,091 13.1 Royalty expense 191 2.3 203 2.5 202 2.4 Selling, General and Administrative (SGA) Expenses In 2009, our SGA expenses increased by $46 million, or two percent, as compared to 2008. This increase was related primarily to the addition of direct selling expenses and head count, including expanding our global sales force and an increase in costs associated with various litigation related matters. These increases were partially offset by a benefit from foreign currency exchange rates of approximately $22 million. As a percentage of net sales, our SGA expenses were flat with 2008. In 2008, our SGA expenses decreased by $320 million, or 11 percent, as compared to 2007. The decrease in our SGA expenses related primarily to lower head count and spending resulting from our 2007 Restructuring plan, as well as a reduction of $160 million attributable to our first quarter 2008 divestiture of certain non strategic businesses. Refer to the Restructuring Initiatives section for more discussion of these initiatives. Research and Development (RD) Expenses Our investment in RD reflects spending on new product development programs, as well as regulatory compliance and clinical research. In 2009, our RD expenses increased $29 million, or three percent, as compared to 2008. As a percentage of net sales, our RD expenses in 2009 were relatively flat with 2008. We remain committed to advancing medical technologies and investing in meaningful research and development projects across our businesses in order to maintain a healthy pipeline of new products that will contribute to our short and long term profitable sales growth. In 2008, our RD expenses decreased by $85 million, or eight percent, as compared to 2007. As a percentage of our net sales, RD expenses decreased to 12.5 percent in 2008 from 13.1 percent in 2007. The decrease related primarily to lower head count and spending of $75 million resulting from our first quarter 2008 divestiture of certain non strategic businesses. Royalty Expense In 2009, our royalty expense decreased $12 million, or six percent, as compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in royalty expense of $29 million attributable to the expiration of a CRM royalty agreement during the first quarter of 2009. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in royalty expense of $20 million as a result of an increase in sales of our drug eluting stent systems, as well as the shift in the mix of our drug eluting stent system sales towards the PROMUS stent system, following its launch in the U.S. in mid 2008. The royalty rate applied to sales of the PROMUS stent system is, on average, higher than that associated with sales of our TAXUS stent system. In 2008, our royalty expense increased by $1 million, or less than one percent, as compared to 2007. As a percentage of our net sales, royalty expense increased slightly to 2.5 percent from 2.4 percent for 2007. 56 Table of Contents Royalty expense attributable to sales of our drug eluting stent systems increased $8 million as compared to 2007, despite an overall decrease in drug eluting stent system sales. This was due to a shift in the mix of our drug eluting stent system sales towards the PROMUS stent system. Offsetting this increase was a decrease in royalty expense of $6 million attributable to our first quarter 2008 divestiture of certain non strategic businesses. Loss on Program Termination In the second quarter of 2009, we cancelled one of our internal RD programs in order to focus on those with a higher likelihood of success. As a result, we recorded a pre tax loss of $16 million, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations (formerly FASB Statement No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities), associated with future payments that we believe we remain contractually obligated to make. We continue to focus on developing new technologies that will contribute to profitable sales growth in the future and do not believe that the cancellation of this program will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or cash flows. Amortization Expense Our amortization expense was $511 million in 2009, as compared to $543 million in 2008, a decrease of $32 million or six percent. This decrease was due primarily to the impact of certain Interventional Cardiology related intangible assets reaching the end of their accounting useful life during 2008, as well as the write down of certain intangible assets to their fair values in 2009 and 2008, described in Other Intangible Asset Impairment Charges below. Our amortization expense was $543 million in 2008, as compared to $620 million in 2007, a decrease of $77 million, or 12 percent. The decrease in our amortization expense related primarily to the disposal of $581 million of amortizable intangible assets in connection with our first quarter 2008 business divestitures, and to certain Interventional Cardiology related intangible assets reaching the end of their accounting useful life. Goodwill Impairment Charges In 2008, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $2.613 billion associated with our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note E Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Other Intangible Asset Impairment Charges In 2009, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $12 million, associated primarily with lower than anticipated market penetration of one of our Urology technology offerings. We do not believe that these impairments will have a material impact on our future operations or cash flows. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note E Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. In 2008, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $177 million, including a $131 million write down of certain of our Peripheral Interventions related intangible assets, and a $46 million write down of certain Urology related intangible assets. We do not believe that the write down of these assets will have a material impact on future operations or cash flows. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note E Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. 57 Table of Contents In 2007, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $21 million associated with our acquisition of Advanced Stent Technologies (AST), due to our decision to suspend further significant funding with respect to the Petal bifurcation stent. We do not expect this decision to materially impact our future operations or cash flows. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note E Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Acquisition related Milestone In connection with Abbotts 2006 acquisition of Guidants vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, Abbott agreed to pay us a milestone payment of $250 million upon receipt of FDA approval to sell an everolimus eluting stent in the U.S. In July 2008, Abbott received FDA approval and launched its XIENCE V everolimus eluting coronary stent system in the U.S., and paid us $250 million, which we recorded as a gain in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Under the terms of the agreement, we were also entitled to receive a second milestone payment of $250 million from Abbott upon receipt of an approval from the Japanese MHLW to market the XIENCE V stent system in Japan. The MHLW approved the XIENCE V stent system in the first quarter in 2010 and we subsequently received the milestone payment from Abbott, which we will record as a gain in our financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2010. Purchased Research and Development As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R), Business Combinations (codified within ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations), a replacement for Statement No. 141. Additionally, Statement No. 141(R) superseded FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, which required research and development assets acquired in a business combination that had no alternative future use to be measured at their fair values and expensed at the acquisition date. Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) requires that purchased research and development acquired in a business combination be recognized as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. During 2009, we did not consummate any material business combinations. For any future business combinations that we enter, we will recognize purchased research and development as an intangible asset. Our policy is to record certain costs associated with strategic alliances as purchased research and development. Our adoption of Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) did not change this policy with respect to asset purchases. In accordance with this policy, during 2009, we recorded purchased research and development charges of $21 million in conjunction with entering certain licensing and development arrangements. Since the 2009 technology purchases did not involve the transfer of processes or outputs as defined by Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805), the transactions did not qualify as business combinations. In 2008, we recorded $43 million of purchased research and development charges, including $17 million associated with our acquisition of Labcoat, Ltd., $8 million attributable to our acquisition of CryoCor, Inc., and $18 million associated with entering certain licensing and development arrangements. The in process research and development associated with our acquisition of Labcoat, Ltd. related to a novel technology Labcoat is developing for coating drug eluting stents. The in process research and development associated with CryoCor represents cryogenic technology for use in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, the most common and difficult to treat cardiac arrhythmia (abnormal heartbeat). We intend to use this technology in order to further pursue therapeutic solutions for atrial fibrillation and advance our existing CRM and Electrophysiology product lines. In 2007, we recorded $85 million of purchased research and development, including $75 million associated with our acquisition of Remon Medical Technologies, Inc., $13 million resulting from the application of equity method accounting for one of our strategic investments, and $12 million associated 58 Table of Contents with payments made for certain early stage CRM technologies. Additionally, in June 2007, we terminated our product development agreement with Aspect Medical Systems relating to brain monitoring technology that Aspect was developing to aid the diagnosis and treatment of depression, Alzheimers disease and other neurological conditions. As a result, we recognized a credit to purchased research and development of approximately $15 million during 2007, representing future payments that we would have been obligated to make prior to the termination of the agreement. We do not expect the termination of the agreement to impact our future operations or cash flows materially. The in process research and development acquired with Remon consists of a pressure sensing system development project, which we intend to combine with our existing CRM devices. As of December 31, 2009, we estimate that the total cost to complete the development project is between $75 million and $80 million. We expect to launch devices using pressure sensing technology in 2013 in our EMEA region and certain Inter Continental countries, in the U.S. in 2016, and Japan in 2017, subject to regulatory approvals. We expect material net cash inflows from such products to commence in 2016, following the launch of this technology in the U.S. Gain on Divestitures During 2008, we recorded a $250 million gain in connection with the sale of our Fluid Management and Venous Access businesses and our TriVascular EVAR program. Refer to the Restructuring Initiatives section and Note F Divestitures to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on these transactions. Loss on Assets Held for Sale During 2007, we recorded a $560 million loss attributable primarily to the write down of goodwill in connection with the sale of certain of our non strategic businesses. Refer to the Restructuring Initiatives section and Note F Divestitures to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on these transactions. Restructuring In October 2007, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, an expense and head count reduction plan (the 2007 Restructuring plan), which resulted in the elimination of approximately 2,300 positions worldwide. We are providing affected employees with severance packages, outplacement services and other appropriate assistance and support. The plan is intended to bring expenses in line with revenues as part of our initiatives to enhance short and long term shareholder value. Key activities under the plan include the restructuring of several businesses, corporate functions and product franchises in order to better utilize resources, strengthen competitive positions, and create a more simplified and efficient business model; the elimination, suspension or reduction of spending on certain research and development projects; and the transfer of certain production lines among facilities. We initiated these activities in the fourth quarter of 2007. The transfer of production lines contemplated under the 2007 Restructuring plan will continue throughout 2010; all other major activities under the plan were completed as of December 31, 2009. We expect that the execution of this plan will result in total pre tax expenses of approximately $425 million to $435 million. We have recorded related costs of $407 million since the inception of the plan, and are recording a portion of these expenses as restructuring charges and the remaining portion through other lines within our consolidated statements of operations. We expect the plan to result in cash payments of approximately $375 million to $385 million, of which we have made payments of $330 million to date. The following provides a summary of our expected total costs associated with the plan by major type of cost: 59 Table of Contents Total estimated amount expected to Type of cost be incurred Restructuring charges: Termination benefits $205 million to $210 million Fixed asset write offs $31 million Other (1) $65 million Restructuring related expenses: Retention incentives $66 million Accelerated depreciation $18 million Transfer costs (2) $40 million to $45 million $425 million to $435 million (1) Consists primarily of consulting fees, contractual cancellations, relocation costs and other costs. (2) Consists primarily of costs to transfer product lines among facilities, including costs of transfer teams, freight and product line validations. As a result of the execution of our 2007 Restructuring plan and our divestiture related initiatives, we reduced research and development and SGA expenses by an annualized run rate of approximately $500 million exiting 2008. In addition, we expect annualized run rate reductions of manufacturing costs of approximately $35 million to $40 million as a result of our transfers of production lines. Due to the longer term nature of these initiatives, we do not expect to achieve the full benefit of these reductions in manufacturing costs until 2012. We have partially reinvested our savings from these initiatives into targeted head count increases, primarily in customer facing positions, to drive future sales growth. In addition, in January 2009, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a Plant Network Optimization program, which is intended to simplify our manufacturing plant structure by transferring certain production lines among facilities and by closing certain other facilities. The program is a complement to our 2007 Restructuring plan, and is intended to improve overall gross profit margins. Activities under the Plant Network Optimization program were initiated in the first quarter of 2009 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2011. We estimate that the program will result in annual reductions of manufacturing costs of approximately $65 million to $80 million in 2012. These savings are in addition to the estimated $35 million to $40 million of annual reductions of manufacturing costs in 2012 from activities under our 2007 Restructuring plan. We expect that the execution of the Plant Network Optimization program will result in total pre tax charges of approximately $135 million to $150 million, and that approximately $115 million to $125 million of these charges will result in future cash outlays. The following provides a summary of our estimates of costs associated with the Plant Network Optimization program by major type of cost: Total estimated amount expected to Type of cost be incurred Restructuring charges: Termination benefits $40 million to $45 million Restructuring related expenses: Accelerated depreciation $20 million to $25 million Transfer costs (1) $75 million to $80 million $135 million to $150 million (1) Consists primarily of costs to transfer product lines among facilities, including costs of transfer teams, freight, idle facility and product line validations. 60 Table of Contents We recorded restructuring charges of $63 million in 2009, $78 million in 2008 and $176 million in 2007. In addition, we recorded expenses within other lines of our accompanying consolidated statements of operations related to our restructuring initiatives of $67 million in 2009, $55 million in 2008, and $8 million in 2007. The following presents these costs by major type and line item within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations: Year Ended December 31, 2009 Termination Retention Accelerated Transfer Fixed Asset (in millions) Benefits Incentives Depreciation Costs Write offs Other Total Restructuring charges $ 34 $ 13 $ 16 $ 63 Restructuring related expenses: Cost of products sold $ 5 $ 8 $ 37 50 Selling, general and administrative expenses 10 3 1 14 Research and development expenses 3 3 18 11 37 1 67 $ 34 $ 18 $ 11 $ 37 $ 13 $ 17 $ 130 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Termination Retention Accelerated Transfer Fixed Asset (in millions) Benefits Incentives Depreciation Costs Write offs Other Total Restructuring charges $ 34 $ 10 $ 34 $ 78 Restructuring related expenses: Cost of products sold $ 9 $ 4 $ 4 $ 17 Selling, general and administrative expenses 27 4 31 Research and development expenses 7 7 $ 43 $ 8 $ 4 $ 55 $ 34 $ 43 $ 8 $ 4 $ 10 $ 34 $ 133 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Termination Retention Accelerated Transfer Fixed Asset (in millions) Benefits Incentives Depreciation Costs Write offs Other Total Restructuring charges $ 158 $ 8 $ 10 $ 176 Restructuring related expenses: Cost of products sold $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 Selling, general and administrative expenses 2 2 4 Research and development expenses 2 2 $ 5 $ 3 $ 8 $ 158 $ 5 $ 3 $ 8 $ 10 $ 184 Restructuring and restructuring related costs recorded in 2008 and 2007 relate entirely to our 2007 Restructuring plan. Costs recorded in 2009 by plan were as follows: Termination Retention Accelerated Transfer Fixed Asset (in millions) Benefits Incentives Depreciation Costs Write offs Other Total 2007 Restructuring plan $ 12 $ 18 $ 5 $ 25 $ 13 $ 17 $ 90 Plant Network Optimization program 22 6 12 40 $ 34 $ 18 $ 11 $ 37 $ 13 $ 17 $ 130 Termination benefits represent amounts incurred pursuant to our on going benefit arrangements and amounts for one time involuntary termination benefits, and have been recorded in accordance with ASC Topic 712, Compensation Non retirement Postemployment Benefits (formerly FASB Statement No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits) and ASC Topic 420 Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations (formerly FASB Statement No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities). We expect to record the additional termination benefits in 2010 when we identify with more specificity the job classifications, functions and locations of the remaining head count to be eliminated. Retention 61 Table of Contents incentives represent cash incentives, which are being recorded over the service period during which eligible employees must remain employed with us in order to retain the payment. Other restructuring costs, which represent primarily consulting fees, are being recognized and measured at their fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred in accordance with Topic 420. Accelerated depreciation is being recorded over the adjusted remaining useful life of the related assets, and production line transfer costs are being recorded as incurred. We have incurred cumulative restructuring charges of $317 million and restructuring related costs of $130 million since we committed to each plan. The following presents these costs by major type and by plan: 2007 Plant Restructuring Network (in millions) Plan Optimization Total Termination benefits $ 204 $ 22 $ 226 Fixed asset write offs 31 31 Other 60 60 Total restructuring charges 295 22 $ 317 Retention incentives 66 66 Accelerated depreciation 16 6 22 Transfer costs 29 12 41 Other 1 1 Restructuring related expenses 112 18 130 $ 407 $ 40 $ 447 In 2009, we made cash payments of approximately $100 million associated with restructuring initiatives pursuant to our 2007 Restructuring plan, which related to termination benefits, production line transfer costs and other restructuring costs. We have made cumulative cash payments of approximately $330 million since we committed to the 2007 Restructuring plan. These payments were made using cash generated from our operations. We expect to record the remaining costs associated with the 2007 Restructuring plan through 2010, and make future cash payments throughout 2010 using cash generated from operations. In 2009, since the inception of our Plant Network Optimization program, we have made associated cash payments of $12 million. These payments were made using cash generated from our operations. We expect to record the remaining costs associated with the Plant Network Optimization program through 2011, and make future cash payments through 2012 using cash generated from operations. Further, on February 6, 2010, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a series of management changes and restructuring initiatives (the 2010 Restructuring plan) designed to strengthen and position us for long term success. We estimate that the execution of this plan will result in reductions in pre tax operating expenses of approximately $200 million to $250 million, once completed in 2011. We will reinvest a portion of the savings into customer facing and other activities to help drive future sales growth and support the business. Key activities under the plan include the integration of our Cardiovascular and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate functions; the centralization of our RD organization; the re alignment of our international structure, and the reprioritization and diversification of our product portfolio, in order to drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth and increase both accountability and shareholder value. Activities under the 2010 Restructuring plan will be initiated in early 2010 and are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2011. We estimate that the 2010 Restructuring plan will result in total pre tax charges of approximately $180 million to $200 million, and that approximately $170 million to $190 million of these charges will result in future cash outlays. We expect the execution of the plan will result in the elimination of approximately 62 Table of Contents 1,000 to 1,300 positions by the end of 2011. The following provides a summary of our expected total costs associated with the plan by major type of cost: Type of Cost Total Expected Amounts Restructuring charges: Termination benefits $115 million to $125 million Asset write offs $5 million Other (1) $35 million to $40 million Restructuring related expenses: Other (2) $25 million to $30 million $180 million to $200 million (1) Includes primarily consulting fees and costs associated with contractual cancellations (2) Comprised of other costs directly related to restructuring plan, including accelerated depreciation and infrastructure related costs Litigation Related Charges We record certain significant litigation related activity as a separate line item in our consolidated statements of operations. In 2009, we recorded litigation related charges of $2.022 billion, associated primarily with an agreement to settle three patent disputes with Johnson Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. In addition, in November 2009, we reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to pay $296 million in order to resolve the U.S. Government investigation of Guidant Corporation related to product advisories issued in 2005. Further, during 2009, we recorded charges of $50 million associated with the settlement of all outstanding litigation with Bruce Saffran, and reduced previously recorded reserves associated with certain litigation related matters following certain favorable court rulings, resulting in a credit of $60 million. In 2008, we recorded litigation related charges of $334 million as a result of a ruling by a federal judge in a patent infringement case brought against us by Johnson Johnson, and, in 2007, recorded litigation related charges of $365 million, associated with this case. Each of these matters is discussed in Note L Commitments and Contingencies to our 2009 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Interest Expense Our interest expense decreased to $407 million in 2009, as compared to $468 million in 2008. The decrease in our interest expense was a result of a decrease in our average debt levels, due to term loan prepayments during 2009. Partially offsetting these decreases were losses of $27 million associated with the early termination of interest rate contracts for which there was no longer an underlying exposure following the prepayment of our remaining term loan debt obligations, the write off of $7 million of debt issuance costs following the prepayment of our term loan, and a slight increase in our average borrowing rate. Our average borrowing rate was 6.1 percent in 2009 and 6.0 percent in 2008. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section and Note I Borrowings and Credit Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information regarding our debt obligations. Our interest expense decreased to $468 million in 2008 as compared to $570 million in 2007. The decrease in our interest expense related primarily to a decrease in our average debt levels, due to debt prepayments of $1.425 billion during the year, as well as a decrease in our average borrowing rate. Our average borrowing rate was 6.0 percent for 2008 and 6.3 percent in 2007. 63 Table of Contents Other, net Our other, net reflected expense of $7 million in 2009, expense of $58 million in 2008, and income of $15 million in 2007. The following are the components of other, net: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest income $ 7 $ 47 $ 79 Foreign currency (losses) gains (5 ) 5 17 Net gains (losses) on investments and notes receivable 3 (93 ) (54 ) Fair value adjustment for sharing of proceeds feature of the Abbott Laboratories stock purchase (8 ) Other expense, net (12 ) (17 ) (19 ) $ (7 ) $ (58 ) $ 15 Other, net included interest income of $7 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008, and $79 million in 2007. Our interest income decreased in 2009, as compared to 2008, and in 2008, as compared to 2007, due primarily to lower average investment rates available in the market, as well as lower average cash balances. In addition, other, net included net gains of $3 million in 2009, and net losses of $93 million in 2008 and $54 million in 2007, associated with our investment portfolio. These gains and losses relate primarily to the sale of our non strategic investments, described in Note G Divestitures to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Guidant Corporation and related transaction with Abbott Laboratories, Abbott was required to sell its shares of our common stock and apply a portion of the net proceeds from its sale of these shares in excess of specified amounts, if any, to reduce the principal amount of the loan granted to us from Abbott as part of the Guidant transaction. We recorded the fair value of this sharing of proceeds feature, determined using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology, as of the acquisition date and revalued the instrument each subsequent reporting period. As a result, we recorded net expense of $8 million during 2007 to reflect a decrease in fair value resulting from changes in our stock price, among other factors. There was no fair value associated with this feature as of December 31, 2009 or 2008, and all underlying shares of our common stock have been sold by Abbott. Tax Rate The following provides a summary of our reported tax rate: Percentage Point Increase (Decrease) 2009 2008 2009 2008 2007 vs. 2008 vs. 2007 Reported tax rate (21.6 )% 0.2 % (13.0 )% (21.8 )% 13.2 % Impact of certain charges 39.1 % 18.9 % 25.6 % 20.2 % (6.7 )% In 2009, the decrease in our reported tax rate, as compared to 2008, related primarily to the impact of certain items that are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate. In 2009, these amounts included litigation related net charges, intangible asset impairment charges, purchased research and development and restructuring related charges, as well as a favorable tax ruling on a divestiture related gain recognized in a prior period. In 2008, the increase in our reported tax rate, as compared to 2007, related primarily to the impact of certain charges and gains that are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate. These amounts related primarily to gains and losses associated with the divestiture of certain non strategic businesses and investments, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, litigation related charges, and changes in the geographic mix of our net sales. 64 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.038 billion of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net $885 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.107 billion of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net $945 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. We have concluded all U.S. federal income tax matters through 2000 and substantially all material state, local, and foreign income tax matters through 2001. During 2009, we received the Revenue Agents Report for our federal tax examination covering years 2004 and 2005, which contained proposed adjustments, related primarily to transfer pricing and transaction related issues. We agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $64 million, inclusive of interest. We disagree with certain positions contained in the Report and intend to contest these positions through applicable IRS and judicial procedures, as appropriate. We also continue to disagree with and contest the significant proposed adjustment, related primarily to the allocation of income between our US and foreign affiliates, contained in the Revenue Agents Report received in 2008 for Guidants federal tax examination covering years 2001 through 2003. Although the final resolution associated with these matters is uncertain, we believe that our income tax reserves are adequate and that the resolution will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. During 2009, the Obama administration announced several legislative proposals to reform the United States tax rules, including provisions that may limit the deferral of United States income tax on our unremitted earnings, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. If any of these proposals are enacted into law, they could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following provides a summary and description of our cash inflows (outflows) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Cash provided by operating activities $ 835 $ 1,216 $ 934 Cash (used for) provided by investing activities (793 ) 324 (474 ) Cash used for financing activities (820 ) (1,350 ) (680 ) Operating Activities Cash generated by our operating activities continues to be a major source of funds for servicing our outstanding debt obligations and investing in our growth. The decrease in our operating cash flow in 2009, as compared to 2008, is due primarily to litigation related payments of $823 million, associated primarily with patent litigation with Johnson Johnson. Refer to Note L Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for discussion of our legal proceedings. These cash outflows were partially offset by lower net tax payments of $370 million; and lower interest payments of $50 million, due to lower average debt balances, as well as improvements in working capital, particularly the strong collection of accounts receivable. The increase in operating cash flow in 2008, as compared to 2007, is due primarily to the receipt of a $250 million milestone payment from Abbott following the July 2008 FDA approval of the XIENCE V everolimus eluting coronary stent system. In addition, we made lower interest payments of $129 million in 2008, as compared to 2007, due to lower average debt balances. These increases were partially offset by $187 million of payments made in 2008 towards the Guidant multi district litigation (MDL) settlement, described in Note L. 65 Table of Contents Investing Activities During 2009, our investing activities included $523 million of payments related to prior period acquisitions, comprised primarily of a final fixed payment of approximately $500 million related to our prior period acquisition of Advanced Bionics Corporation, described in Note D Acquisitions to our accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Our investing activities in 2009 also included payments for investments in privately held companies, and acquisitions of businesses and certain technology rights of $54 million, which were offset by proceeds from the sale of investments in, and collection of notes receivable from, certain publicly traded and privately held companies, of $91 million. Further, we made capital expenditures of $312 million during 2009. We expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately $350 million to $400 million during 2010, which includes capital expenditures to further upgrade our quality systems and information systems infrastructure, and to enhance our manufacturing capabilities to support continued growth in our business units. During 2008, our investing activities included proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion associated with the divestiture of certain businesses, $149 million of proceeds associated with the sale of investments and collections of notes receivable. These cash inflows were partially offset by $675 million in payments related to prior period acquisitions, associated primarily with Advanced Bionics; and $39 million of net cash payments for investments in privately held companies, and acquisitions of certain technology rights. In addition, we paid $21 million, net of cash acquired, to acquire CryoCor, Inc. and $17 million, net of cash acquired, to acquire Labcoat, Ltd. Refer to Note G Investments and Notes Receivable and Note D Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Further, our 2008 investing activities included capital expenditures of $362 million. During 2007, our investing activities included $248 million of payments related to prior period acquisitions, associated primarily with Advanced Bionics; and $53 million of cash payments for investments in privately held companies, and acquisitions of certain technology rights. Further, we paid approximately $70 million, net of cash acquired, to acquire Remon Medical Technologies, Inc. We also issued approximately five million shares of our common stock valued at approximately $90 million and paid $10 million in cash, in addition to our previous investments of $40 million, to acquire the remaining interests of EndoTex Interventional Systems, Inc. These cash outflows were partially offset by $243 million of gross proceeds from the sale of several of our investments in, and collection of notes receivable from, certain privately held and publicly traded companies. Refer to Note G Investments and Notes Receivable and Note D Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Further, our 2007 investing activities included capital expenditures of $363 million. Financing Activities Our cash flows from financing activities reflect issuances and repayments of debt and proceeds from stock issuances related to our equity incentive programs. Debt In 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of senior notes and received net proceeds of $1.972 billion. We used these proceeds, as well as cash generated from operations, to prepay all $2.825 billion remaining under our term loan. We also prepaid $1.175 billion of our term loan debt in 2008. The following is a summary of our net debt4 position as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: 4 Management uses net debt to monitor and evaluate cash and debt levels and believes it is a measure that provides valuable information regarding our net financial position and interest rate exposure. Users of our financial statements should consider this non GAAP financial information in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor as superior to, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. 66 Table of Contents As of December 31, (in millions) 2009 2008 Short term debt $ 3 $ 2 Long term debt 5,915 6,743 Total debt 5,918 6,745 Less: cash and cash equivalents 864 1,641 Net debt $ 5,054 $ 5,104 Equity During 2009, we received $33 million in proceeds from stock issuances related to our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, as compared to $71 million in 2008 and $132 million in 2007. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchases vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock and in the exercise and stock purchase patterns of employees. We did not repurchase any of our common stock during 2009, 2008 or 2007. Approximately 37 million shares remain under our previous share repurchase authorizations. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table provides a summary of certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make future payments, and is based on conditions in existence as of December 31, 2009. See Note D Acquisitions and Note I Borrowings and Credit Arrangements to our 2009 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information regarding our acquisition and debt obligations. Payments Due by Period (in millions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Litigation settlements $ 1,299 750 $ 2,049 Long term debt obligations 1,750 600 3,600 5,950 Operating lease obligations (1) 76 68 52 36 22 62 316 Purchase obligations (1)(2) 364 27 20 3 1 1 416 Minimum royalty obligations (1) 28 15 3 1 1 5 53 Unrecognized tax benefits 101 101 Interest payments (1) 290 292 245 245 228 1,493 2,793 $ 2,158 $ 2,902 $ 320 $ 285 $ 852 $ 5,161 $ 11,678 (1) In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, these obligations relate to expenses associated with future periods and are not reflected in our consolidated balance sheets. (2) These obligations relate primarily to non cancellable inventory commitments and capital expenditures entered in the normal course of business. The table above does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $1.236 billion, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note K Income Taxes to our 2009 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on these unrecognized tax benefits. 67 Table of Contents Certain of our acquisitions involve the payment of contingent consideration. See Note D Acquisitions to our 2009 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for the estimated maximum potential amount of future contingent consideration we could be required to pay associated with our recent acquisitions. Since it is not possible to estimate when, or even if, performance milestones will be reached, or the amount of contingent consideration payable based on future revenues, the maximum contingent consideration has not been included in the table above. Additionally, we may consider satisfying these commitments by issuing our stock or refinancing the commitments with cash, including cash obtained through the sale of our stock. Certain of our equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the future. Since it is not possible to estimate when, or even if, we will exercise our option to acquire these companies, we have not included these future potential payments in the table above. During the first quarter of 2010, we reached an agreement to settle three patent disputes with Johnson Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. We paid $1.000 billion, consisting of $800 million of cash on hand and $200 million borrowed from our revolving credit facility, during the first quarter of 2010 and will satisfy the remaining obligation on or before January 3, 2011. In addition, during the first half of 2011, $1.750 billion of our outstanding debt obligations, as well as our revolving credit facility, will mature. We expect to refinance the majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility by mid 2010. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding letters of credit of $123 million, as compared to $819 million as of December 31, 2008, which consisted primarily of bank guarantees and collateral for workers compensation programs. The decrease is due primarily to the payment of $716 million to Johnson Johnson during 2009 and the termination of an associated letter of credit. In February 2010, we posted a $745 million letter of credit under our $1.750 billion revolving credit facility as collateral for the future Johnson and Johnson obligation discussed above, which reduces availability under the facility by the same amount. See Note L Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a description of these legal proceedings. As of December 31, 2009, none of the beneficiaries had drawn upon the letters of credit or guarantees, and, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had accrued the Johnson Johnson obligations in our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, we have not recognized a related liability for our outstanding letters of credit in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 or 2008. We believe we will generate sufficient cash from operations to fund these payments without drawing on the letters of credit. We also maintain a $350 million credit and security facility secured by our U.S. trade receivables. As of December 31, 2009, we had $54 million of letters of credit outstanding under our revolving credit facility. There were no other amounts borrowed under these facilities as of December 31, 2009 or December 31, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial results are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies. We have adopted accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). We describe these accounting polices in Note A Significant Accounting Policies to our 2009 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, management makes estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of our revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. 68 Table of Contents We consider estimates to be critical if (i) we are required to make assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time of estimation or if (ii) materially different estimates could have been made or it is reasonably likely that the accounting estimate will change from period to period. The following are areas requiring managements judgment that we consider critical: Revenue Recognition We generate revenue primarily from the sale of single use medical devices, and present revenue net of sales taxes in our consolidated statements of operations. We consider revenue to be realized or realizable and earned when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; the price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. We generally meet these criteria at the time of shipment, unless a consignment arrangement exists or we are required to provide additional services. We recognize revenue from consignment arrangements based on product usage, or implant, which indicates that the sale is complete. For our other transactions, we recognize revenue when our products are delivered and risk of loss transfers to the customer, provided there are no substantive remaining performance obligations required of us or any matters requiring customer acceptance, and provided we can form an estimate for sales returns. For multiple element arrangements where the sale of devices is combined with future service obligations, as with our LATITUDE Patient Management System, we defer revenue on the undelivered element based on verifiable objective evidence of fair value and using the residual method of allocation, and recognize the associated revenue over the related service period. We generally allow our customers to return defective, damaged and, in certain cases, expired products for credit. We base our estimate for sales returns upon historical trends and record the amount as a reduction to revenue when we sell the initial product. In addition, we may allow customers to return previously purchased products for next generation product offerings; for these transactions, we defer recognition of revenue based upon an estimate of the amount of product to be returned when the next generation products are shipped to the customer. We offer sales rebates and discounts to certain customers. We treat sales rebates and discounts as a reduction of revenue and classify the corresponding liability as current. We estimate rebates for products where there is sufficient historical information available to predict the volume of expected future rebates. If we are unable to estimate the expected rebates reasonably, we record a liability for the maximum rebate percentage offered. We have entered certain agreements with group purchasing organizations to sell our products to participating hospitals at negotiated prices. We recognize revenue from these agreements following the same revenue recognition criteria discussed above. Warranty Obligations We estimate the costs that we may incur under our warranty programs based on historical experience. We record a liability equal to the costs to repair or otherwise satisfy the claim as cost of products sold at the time the product sale occurs. Factors that affect our warranty liability include the number of units sold, the historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and the cost per claim. We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities on a quarterly basis and adjust the amounts as necessary. Inventory Provisions We base our provisions for excess and obsolete inventory primarily on our estimates of forecasted net sales. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess and obsolete inventory in the future. The industry in which we participate is characterized by rapid product development and frequent new product introductions. Uncertain timing of next generation product approvals, variability in product 69 Table of Contents launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to excess and obsolete inventory. Valuation of Business Combinations We record intangible assets acquired in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. We allocate the amounts we pay for each acquisition to the assets we acquire and liabilities we assume based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets and purchased research and development which either arise from a contractual or legal right or are separable from goodwill. We base the fair value of identifiable intangible assets and purchased research and development on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider managements best estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired to goodwill. The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated cash flows and discount rates, and alternative estimated useful life assumptions could result in different purchase price allocations, amounts for purchased research and development, and intangible asset amortization expense in current and future periods. As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R), Business Combinations (codified within ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations). Pursuant to the guidance in Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805), in those circumstances where an acquisition involves contingent consideration, we would recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent payment at the acquisition date. For acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009, we will continue to record contingent consideration as an additional element of cost of the acquired entity when the contingency is resolved and consideration is issued or becomes issuable. Purchased Research and Development Our purchased research and development represents the value of acquired in process projects that have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future uses as of the date of acquisition. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products in an applicable geographic region. Through December 31, 2008 we expensed the value attributable to these in process projects at the time of the acquisition in accordance with accounting standards effective through that date. As discussed above, as of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R), Business Combinations (codified within ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations), a replacement for Statement No. 141. Statement No. 141(R) also superseded FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, which required research and development assets acquired in a business combination that had no alternative future use to be measured at their fair values and expensed at the acquisition date. Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) requires that purchased research and development acquired in a business combination be recognized as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. During 2009, we did not consummate any material business combinations. For any future business combinations that we enter, we will recognize purchased research and development as an intangible asset. In addition, we record certain costs associated with strategic alliances as purchased research and development. Our adoption of Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) did not change this policy with respect to asset purchases. We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our purchased research and development. This approach calculates fair value by estimating the after tax cash flows attributable to an in process project over its useful life and then discounting these after tax cash flows back to a present value. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected market growth rates, 70 Table of Contents expected trends in technology and expected levels of market share. In arriving at the value of the in process projects, we consider, among other factors: the in process projects stage of completion; the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date; the costs already incurred; the projected costs to complete; the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets; the expected introduction date; and the estimated useful life of the technology. We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as of the date of acquisition on the time value of money and medical technology investment risk factors. For the in process projects acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, we used risk adjusted discount rates of 34 percent in 2008 and 19 percent in 2007 to discount our projected cash flows. We believe that the estimated in process research and development amounts so determined represent the fair value at the date of acquisition and do not exceed the amount a third party would pay for the projects. However, if the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the acquisition as a whole. Impairment of Intangible Assets We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. In addition, we test our indefinite lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment and reassess their classification as indefinite lived assets. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product recall, or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If an impairment indicator exists, we test the intangible asset for recoverability. For purposes of the recoverability test, we group our amortizable intangible assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows if the intangible asset does not generate cash flows independent of other assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of the intangible asset (asset group) exceeds the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the intangible asset (asset group), we will write the carrying value down to the fair value in the period identified. To test our indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment, we calculate the fair value of these assets and compare the calculated fair values to the respective carrying values. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset, we write the carrying value down to the fair value. We generally calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future cash flows we expect to generate from the asset using a risk adjusted discount rate. In determining our estimated future cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we use estimates and assumptions about future revenue contributions, cost structures and remaining useful lives of the asset (asset group). The use of alternative assumptions, including estimated cash flows, discount rates, and alternative estimated remaining useful lives could result in different calculations of impairment. See Note E Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for more information related to impairment of intangible assets during 2009, 2008 and 2007. For patents developed internally, we capitalize costs incurred to obtain patents, including attorney fees, registration fees, consulting fees, and other expenditures directly related to securing the patent. Legal costs incurred in connection with the successful defense of both internally developed patents and those obtained through our acquisitions are capitalized and amortized over the remaining amortizable life of the related patent. Goodwill Impairment We test our April 1 goodwill balances during the second quarter of each year for impairment, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. In performing the assessment, we utilize the two step approach prescribed under ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (formerly FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets). The first step requires a comparison of the carrying value of the reporting units, as defined, to the fair value of 71 Table of Contents these units. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. We determine our reporting units by first identifying our operating segments, and then assess whether any components of these segments constitute a business for which discrete financial information is available and where segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. We aggregate components within an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics. For our April 1, 2009 annual impairment assessment, we identified our reporting units to be our six U.S. operating segments, which in aggregate make up the U.S. reportable segment, and our four international operating segments. When allocating goodwill from business combinations to our reporting units, we assign goodwill to the reporting units that we expect to benefit from the respective business combination at the time of acquisition. In addition, for purposes of performing our annual goodwill impairment test, assets and liabilities, including corporate assets, which relate to a reporting units operations, and would be considered in determining its fair value, are allocated to the individual reporting units. We allocate assets and liabilities not directly related to a specific reporting unit, but from which the reporting unit benefits, based primarily on the respective revenue contribution of each reporting unit. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we used only the income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow (DCF) method, to derive the fair value of each of our reporting units in preparing our goodwill impairment assessment. This approach calculates fair value by estimating the after tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting these after tax cash flows to a present value using a risk adjusted discount rate. We selected this method as being the most meaningful in preparing our goodwill assessments because we believe the income approach most appropriately measures our income producing assets. We have considered using the market approach and cost approach but concluded they are not appropriate in valuing our reporting units given the lack of relevant market comparisons available for application of the market approach and the inability to replicate the value of the specific technology based assets within our reporting units for application of the cost approach. Therefore, we believe that the income approach represents the most appropriate valuation technique for which sufficient data is available to determine the fair value of our reporting units. In applying the income approach to our accounting for goodwill, we make assumptions about the amount and timing of future expected cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. The amount and timing of future cash flows within our DCF analysis is based on our most recent operational budgets, long range strategic plans and other estimates. The terminal value growth rate is used to calculate the value of cash flows beyond the last projected period in our DCF analysis and reflects our best estimates for stable, perpetual growth of our reporting units. We use estimates of market participant risk adjusted weighted average costs of capital (WACC) as a basis for determining the discount rates to apply to our reporting units future expected cash flows. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we then perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill to its carrying value. If we were unable to complete the second step of the test prior to the issuance of our financial statements and an impairment loss was probable and could be reasonably estimated, we would recognize our best estimate of the loss in our current period financial statements and disclose that the amount is an estimate. We would then recognize any adjustment to that estimate in subsequent reporting periods, once we have finalized the second step of the impairment test. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the decline in our stock price and our market capitalization created an indication of potential impairment of our goodwill balance. Therefore, we performed an interim impairment test and recorded a $2.613 billion goodwill impairment charge associated with our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. As a result of economic conditions and the related increase in volatility in the equity and credit markets, which became more pronounced starting in the fourth quarter of 2008, our estimated risk adjusted WACC increased 150 basis points from 9.5 percent during our 2008 72 Table of Contents second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment to 11.0 percent during our 2008 fourth quarter interim impairment assessment. This change, along with reductions in market demand for products in our U.S. CRM reporting unit relative to our assumptions at the time of the Guidant acquisition, were the key factors contributing to the impairment charge. Our estimated market participant WACC decreased 50 basis points from 11.0 percent during our 2008 fourth quarter interim impairment assessment to 10.5 percent during our 2009 second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment, and our other significant assumptions remained largely consistent. Our 2009 goodwill impairment test did not identify any reporting units whose carrying values exceeded implied fair values. The majority of our reporting units do not have a material amount of goodwill that is at risk of failing a future impairment test. While we do not believe there are indicators of impairment as of December 31, 2009 to necessitate the performance of an interim impairment test, we have considered current and future expected economic conditions as of year end and, as a result, we have identified two reporting units with a material amount of goodwill that are at higher risk of potential failure of the first step of the impairment test in future reporting periods. These reporting units include our U.S. CRM group and EMEA region, each to which we have allocated a significant portion of the goodwill associated with our 2006 acquisition of Guidant Corporation. The aggregate amount of goodwill allocated to these reporting units was approximately $7.4 billion as of December 31, 2009. For each of these reporting units, the level of excess fair value over carrying value exceeded 25 percent as of our second quarter 2009 impairment assessment. Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. The key variables that drive the fair value of our reporting units are estimated revenue growth rates and discount rate assumptions. Future events that could have a negative effect on the fair value of the reporting units include, but are not limited to: decreases in estimated market sizes due to pricing pressures and the underlying health of local economies; declines in our market share and penetration assumptions due to increased competition, an inability to launch new products, and market and or regulatory conditions that may cause significant launch delays or product recalls; negative developments in current and future intellectual property litigation that may impact our ability to market certain products; increases in the research and development costs necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and launch new products, and the level of success of future research and development efforts; legislative and administrative reforms, which may impact the healthcare industry, and could negatively impact our future selling prices, operating costs and taxes we may be obligated to pay; and increases in our risk adjusted WACC due to further instability or deterioration of the equity and credit markets. Changes in one or more of the factors outlined above could present a situation whereby it may be reasonably likely that an impairment may occur over the next twelve months in our U.S. CRM and EMEA reporting units. Income Taxes We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse. We had net deferred tax liabilities of $1.281 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $1.351 billion as of December 31, 2008. Gross deferred tax liabilities of $2.445 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $2.696 73 Table of Contents billion as of December 31, 2008 relate primarily to intangible assets acquired in connection with our prior acquisitions. Gross deferred tax assets of $1.164 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $1.345 billion as of December 31, 2008 relate primarily to the establishment of inventory and product related reserves, litigation and product liability reserves, purchased research and development, investment write downs, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. In light of our historical financial performance and the extent of our deferred tax liabilities, we believe we will recover substantially all of these assets. As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R), Business Combinations, (codified within ASC Topic 805) which requires that we recognize changes in acquired income tax uncertainties (applied to acquisitions before and after the adoption date) as income tax expense or benefit. We reduce our deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. We consider relevant evidence, both positive and negative, to determine the need for a valuation allowance. Information evaluated includes our financial position and results of operations for the current and preceding years, the availability of deferred tax liabilities and tax carrybacks, as well as an evaluation of currently available information about future years. We do not provide income taxes on unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries where we have indefinitely reinvested such earnings in our foreign operations. It is not practical to estimate the amount of income taxes payable on the earnings that are indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries that we have indefinitely reinvested offshore are $9.355 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $9.327 billion as of December 31, 2008. We provide for potential amounts due in various tax jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of conducting business in multiple countries and tax jurisdictions, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, we can make no assurance that the final outcome of these matters will not be different from that which we have reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which we make such determination. Legal, Product Liability Costs and Securities Claims We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings, including intellectual property, breach of contract, securities litigation and product liability suits. In some cases, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures or impact our ability to sell our products. We are also the subject of certain governmental investigations, which could result in substantial fines, penalties, and administrative remedies. We are substantially self insured with respect to product liability and intellectual property infringement claims. We maintain insurance policies providing limited coverage against securities claims. We generally record losses for claims in excess of the limits of purchased insurance in earnings at the time and to the extent they are probable and estimable. In accordance with ASC Topic 450, Contingencies (formerly FASB Statement No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies), we accrue anticipated costs of settlement, damages losses for general product liability claims and, under certain conditions, costs of defense, based on historical experience or to the extent specific losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we expense these costs as incurred. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, we accrue the minimum amount of the range. We analyze litigation settlements to identify each element of the arrangement. We allocate arrangement consideration to patent licenses received based on estimates of fair value, and capitalize these amounts as assets if the license will provide an on going future benefit. See Note L Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for discussion of our individual material legal proceedings. 74 Table of Contents New Accounting Standards Standards Implemented In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (codified within ASC Topic 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles), which establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) as the single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP. The Codification supersedes all previous non SEC accounting and reporting standards. We adopted Statement No. 168 for our third quarter ended September 30, 2009 and have conformed all references to accounting literature in this Annual Report to the appropriate reference within the Codification. All new authoritative guidance is issued in the form of ASC Updates. We have provided dual referencing for those standards that we adopted prior to the issuance of the Codification. The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations. Statement No. 165 (codified within ASC Topic 855) In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 165, Subsequent Events (codified within ASC Topic 855, Subsequent Events), which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events occurring after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued or available to be issued. We adopted Statement No. 165 for our second quarter ended June 30, 2009. Its adoption did not impact our results of operations or financial condition. Refer to Note A Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information regarding our evaluation of subsequent events. Statement No. 161 (codified within ASC Topic 815) In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, (codified within ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging), which amends Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, by requiring expanded disclosures about an entitys derivative instruments and hedging activities. Statement No. 161 requires increased qualitative, quantitative, and credit risk disclosures, including (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under Statement No. 133 and its related interpretations, and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position and financial performance. We adopted Statement No. 161 as of our first quarter ended March 31, 2009. Refer to Note C Fair Value Measurements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Statement No. 141(R) (codified within ASC Topic 805) In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141(R), Business Combinations (codified within ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations), a replacement for Statement No. 141. Statement No. 141(R) retains the fundamental requirements of Statement No. 141, but requires the recognition of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at their fair values as of the acquisition date. It also requires, for acquisitions involving contingent consideration, the recognition of a liability equal to the expected fair value of future contingent payments at the acquisition date. Additionally, Statement No. 141(R) supersedes FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, which required research and development assets acquired in a business combination that had no alternative future use to be measured at their fair values and expensed at the acquisition date. Statement No. 141(R) now requires that purchased research and development acquired in a business combination be recognized as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Further, Statement No. 141(R) requires that we recognize changes in acquired income tax uncertainties (applied to acquisitions 75 Table of Contents before and after the adoption date) as income tax expense or benefit. We were required to adopt all other provisions of Statement No. 141(R) prospectively for any acquisitions on or after January 1, 2009. We did not consummate any material business combinations during 2009. New Standards to be Implemented ASC Update No. 2009 13 In October 2009, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2009 13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. The consensus in Update No. 2009 13 supersedes certain guidance in Topic 605 (formerly EITF Issue No. 00 21, Multiple Element Arrangements). Update No. 2009 13 provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. Update No. 2009 13 also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. We are required to adopt Update No. 2009 13 as of January 1, 2011 and are in the process of determining the impact that the adoption of Update No. 2009 13 will have on our future results of operations or financial position. ASC Update No. 2009 17 In December 2009, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2009 17, Consolidations (Topic 810) Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, which formally codifies FASB Statement No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). Update No. 2009 17 and Statement No. 167 amends Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, to require that an enterprise perform an analysis to determine whether the enterprises variable interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (VIE). The analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both 1) the power to direct activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance and 2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. Update No. 2009 17 eliminated the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE and requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary. We are required to adopt Update No. 2009 17 for our first quarter ending March 31, 2010. We do not believe the adoption of Update No. 2009 17 will have a significant impact on our future results of operations or financial position. Additional Information Rule 10b5 1 Trading Plans Periodically, certain of our executive officers adopt written stock trading plans in accordance with Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and our own Stock Trading Policy. A Rule 10b5 1 Trading Plan is a written document that pre establishes the amounts, prices and dates (or formula(s) for determining the amounts, prices and dates) of future purchases or sales of our stock, including the exercise and sale of stock options, and is entered into at a time when the person is not in possession of material non public information about the company. On August 18, 2009, William H. Kucheman, our Executive Vice President and President, Cardiology, Rhythm and Vascular Group entered into a Rule 10b5 1 Trading Plan. Mr. Kuchemans plan covers the sale of 17,668 shares of our stock to be acquired upon the exercise of 6,000 stock options expiring on July 25, 2010 and 11,668 stock options expiring on December 6, 2010. Transactions under Mr. Kuchemans plan are based upon pre established dates and stock price thresholds and will expire once all of the shares have been sold or August 31, 2010, whichever is earlier. On August 20, 2009, 11,668 stock options were exercised 76 Table of Contents and sold in accordance with the plan at the pre established stock price threshold. On February 16, 2010, Kenneth J. Pucel, our Executive Vice President, Global Operations, entered into a Rule 10b5 1 Trading Plan. Mr. Pucels plan covers the sale of 5,000 shares of our stock to be acquired upon the exercise of 5,000 stock options expiring on July 25, 2010. Transactions under Mr. Pucels plan are based upon pre established dates and stock price thresholds and will expire once all of the shares have been sold or July 26, 2010, whichever is earlier. Any transaction under Mr. Pucels plan will be disclosed publicly through appropriate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 77 Table of Contents Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting As the management of Boston Scientific Corporation, we are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. We designed our internal control system to provide reasonable assurance to management and the Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting is effective at a reasonable assurance level based on these criteria. Ernst Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This report in which they expressed an unqualified opinion is included below. /s/ J. Raymond Elliott J. Raymond Elliott /s/ Sam R. Leno Sam R. Leno President and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President Finance Information Systems and Chief Financial Officer 78 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Boston Scientific Corporation We have audited Boston Scientific Corporations internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Boston Scientific Corporations management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, Boston Scientific Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Boston Scientific Corporation as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 of Boston Scientific Corporation and our report dated February 25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst Young LLP Boston, Massachusetts February 25, 2010 79 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We develop, manufacture and sell medical devices globally and our earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. We address these risks through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We operate the program pursuant to documented corporate risk management policies. We do not enter derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments substantially offset losses and gains on underlying hedged exposures. Furthermore, we manage our exposure to counterparty risk on derivative instruments by entering into contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions and by actively monitoring outstanding positions. Our currency risk consists primarily of foreign currency denominated firm commitments, forecasted foreign currency denominated intercompany and third party transactions and net investments in certain subsidiaries. We use both nonderivative (primarily European manufacturing operations) and derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. We had currency derivative instruments outstanding in the contract amount of $4.742 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $4.396 billion as of December 31, 2008. We recorded $56 million of other assets and $110 million of other liabilities to recognize the fair value of these derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, as compared to $132 million of other assets and $195 million of other liabilities as of December 31, 2008. A ten percent appreciation in the U.S. dollars value relative to the hedged currencies would increase the derivative instruments fair value by $271 million as of December 31, 2009 and $315 million as of December 31, 2008. A ten percent depreciation in the U.S. dollars value relative to the hedged currencies would decrease the derivative instruments fair value by $331 million as of December 31, 2009 and by $385 million as of December 31, 2008. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of our currency exchange rate sensitive derivative instruments would be substantially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase in the fair value of the hedged underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction. Our interest rate risk relates primarily to U.S. dollar borrowings partially offset by U.S. dollar cash investments. We have historically used interest rate derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in interest rates. We had no interest rate derivative instruments outstanding as of December 31, 2009, as compared to the notional amount of $4.900 billion outstanding as of December 31, 2008. These interest rate derivative instruments fixed the interest rate on our expected LIBOR indexed floating rate loans. During 2009, these interest rate derivative instruments either matured as scheduled or were terminated in connection with the prepayment of our bank term loan. We recognized $27 million of interest expense related to early termination of these interest rate contracts during 2009. We recorded $46 million of other liabilities to recognize the fair value of our interest rate derivative instruments as of December 31, 2008. A one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased the derivative instruments fair value by $32 million as of December 31, 2008. A one percentage point decrease in interest rates would have decreased the derivative instruments fair value by $35 million as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, $5.917 billion of our outstanding debt obligations was at fixed interest rates, representing nearly 100 percent of our total debt. See Note C Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for detailed information regarding our derivative financial instruments. 80 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Boston Scientific Corporation We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Boston Scientific Corporation as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Boston Scientific Corporation at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Boston Scientific Corporations internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst Young LLP Boston, Massachusetts February 25, 2010 81 Table of Contents 
 
