FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20031023104048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
      
Table of Contents
Item 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216, the following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure." The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibits shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission made by Invitrogen Corporation (the "Company") whether before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
     On October 23, 2003, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2003. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
     Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and business integration costs.
     Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
     In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
     We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
      
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
: Paul Goodson or Eric Winzer (760) 603-7200
Investor and Financial Contacts
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2003. Revenues for the third quarter were $196.9 million, an increase of 21% over the $162.6 million reported for the third quarter of 2002. Net income for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 was $13.7 million, or $0.26 per share, which compares to $14.9 million, or $0.28 per share, in the third quarter of 2002. Reported net income and earnings per share decreased as a result of amortization and other charges associated with the acquisition of Molecular Probes and other previously completed transactions.
CARLSBAD, CA, October 23, 2003
The company has regularly reported pro forma results which exclude acquisition related amortization and other costs. Third quarter pro forma net income was $31.0 million, or $0.57 per share, compared with pro forma net income in the third quarter of 2002 of $24.8 million, or $0.46 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 25% and 24% respectively. Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and pro forma results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables with information also presented on the Company's Investor Relations web page at www.invitrogen.com.
Third Quarter 2003 Highlights
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 2
The company will discuss its third quarter 2003 results and its business outlook on its conference call at 11:00 am Eastern Time today, including its higher 2003 guidance. Additional details regarding the call and webcast are included later in this release.
Conference Call and Webcast Today at 11:00 am Eastern
Greg Lucier, Invitrogen's President and CEO, commented: "Invitrogen turned in another strong performance in the third quarter, continuing our strength from the first half. Our businesses are doing well and we have made important progress toward our strategic objectives, which are aimed at accelerating new product introductions, improving operational efficiency, and broadening our product line through smart, technologically differentiated acquisitions.
Third Quarter Review
The third quarter revenue growth of 21% included 4% from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Cell culture revenues increased 28% in the third quarter as sales for both research and production applications posted strong increases. Sales of molecular biology products increased 17% in the third quarter of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002, principally due to the acquisition of well-positioned offerings from Molecular Probes, Pan Vera and InforMax.
Third quarter 2003 gross margin was 61%, compared with 59% in the third quarter of 2002. Third quarter 2003 gross margin included $5.1 million in increased costs for inventories acquired with Pan Vera and Molecular Probes, which were recorded at fair value under purchase accounting rules. Molecular biology gross margin increased to 69% in the third quarter of 2003 from 62% last year. Price increases, cost improvements, the inclusion of high-margin businesses acquired in the past year, and favorable changes in currency rates all contributed to the increase in molecular biology gross margins. Cell culture gross margin increased to 54% from 52% in the comparable quarter of 2002, principally due to higher gross margin on serum products.
Operating income was 10% of revenues in the third quarter of 2003 versus 13% for the third quarter of 2002. Amortization of purchased intangibles increased in the third quarter of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002 reflecting additional amortization for the InforMax, Pan Vera and Molecular Probes businesses acquired in the past year. The 2003 period included $1.4 million of purchased in-process R&D from the acquisition of Molecular Probes. The 2003 period also included a business integration cost of $0.9 million to write down to expected net realizable value the Company's last remaining property in Huntsville, Alabama prior to its anticipated sale in the fourth quarter of 2003.
Operating income before purchased in-process R&D costs, business integration costs and merger-related amortization was 25% of revenues in the third quarter of 2003 compared with 23% in the third quarter of 2002. Higher gross margin more than offset the increased operating expenses resulting from our recent acquisitions, excluding merger-related amortization.
The Company reduced its effective tax rate to 30.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 reflecting higher R&D tax credits and generating more of our income in lower international tax jurisdictions. The Company also reduced its year-to-date effective tax rate on pro forma earnings to 35.0%.
Cash flows from operating activities were $62.9 million in the third quarter of 2003 and $124.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2003. Capital expenditures were $6.6 million during the third quarter of 2003 and $19.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2003. No company shares have been repurchased in 2003.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 3
The company will discuss its third quarter 2003 results and its business outlook on its conference call at 11:00 am Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call, will be posted at the company's Investor Relations web site at .
Conference Call and Webcast Details
www.invitrogen.com
The slides and audio portion of the call can be heard live over the Internet at and will be archived at this address for 30 days. You will need RealPlayer for the web cast.
http://www.vcall.com/CEPage.asp?ID=84821
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (201) 689-8049 after 10:50 am Eastern. A replay of the call will be available until October 30 by dialing (877) 660-6853 and using account number 1628, confirmation number 79229.
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions, and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bio-production. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bio-informatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company globally employs approximately 3,000 scientists and other professionals. For more information about Invitrogen visit the company's web site at www.invitrogen.com.
About Invitrogen
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and business integration costs.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented on the following pages.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 4
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to Invitrogen's ability to: 1) accelerate new product introductions; 2) improve operational efficiency, and 3) broaden its product line through smart, technologically differentiated acquisitions. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited a) the company's ability to identify promising technology, new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 5
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 6
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 7
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 8
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2003 Results Page 8


