FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20041028162959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On October 28, 2004, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
 
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business.
 
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investor and Financial Contacts:
 
Adam S. Taich
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 
 
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. Revenues for the third quarter were $256.3 million, an increase of 30% over the $196.9 million reported for the third quarter of 2003. Net income for the third quarter was $28.2 million versus $13.7 million for the same quarter in 2003, an increase of 106%. Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2004 increased 100% to $0.52 per share, as compared to $0.26 per share reported in the third quarter of 2003.
CARLSBAD, CA, October 28, 2004
 
Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2004, were $761.6 million, an increase of 34% over the $570.0 million reported for the comparable period in 2003. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 increased 23% to $58.4 million versus $47.5 million for the comparable period in 2003.
 
The Company has regularly reported pro forma results which exclude acquisition related amortization and other similar costs. Third quarter pro forma net income was $43.0 million, or $0.77 per share, compared with pro forma net income in the third quarter of 2003 of $31.0 million, or $0.57 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 39% and 35%, respectively. Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and pro forma results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables with information also presented on the Company's Investor Relations web page at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast Today at 5:00 PM Eastern
 
The Company will discuss its third quarter 2004 results on its conference call at 5:00 pm Eastern Time today. Additional details regarding the call and webcast are included later in this release.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 2
 
Third Quarter Review
 
Greg Lucier, Invitrogen's Chairman and CEO, commented: "I am pleased with the Company's performance during the third quarter. Our high-technology BioDiscovery segment delivered at the top end of our expectation in the third quarter with solid organic growth of 5%. This growth is a direct result of new product introductions and enhanced selling effectiveness, and we are encouraged by the acceleration we are seeing in this business. Our BioProduction segment also performed as we expected, including a very solid quarter for our BioReliance business. Our increased investment in research and development continues throughout the Company, and we are confident in our abilities to generate new products that will accelerate scientific research and our future growth."
 
Third quarter revenue growth of 30% included approximately 4% from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenue growth of 17% in BioDiscovery was driven by 5% organic growth and the acquisition of Molecular Probes. BioProduction revenues increased approximately 53% in the third quarter principally related to the recently acquired BioReliance business and continuing demand for cell culture products.
 
Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2004, grew 34%, of which 5% resulted from favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Sales of BioDiscovery products increased 22% for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 versus the same period in 2003. For the same period, BioProduction revenues increased 53%.
 
Third quarter 2004 gross margin was 61%, the same as 61% in the third quarter of 2003. BioDiscovery gross margin increased to 70% in the third quarter of 2004 from 69% last year as product mix has migrated toward higher value product offerings. BioProduction gross margin decreased to 50% from 54% in the comparable quarter of 2003, and reflects the normally lower gross margins associated with the BioReliance services business.
 
Operating income was 16% of revenues in the third quarter of 2004 versus 10% in the third quarter of 2003. Operating income before acquisition related amortization and other similar costs was 25% of revenues in both the third quarters of 2004 and 2003.
 
Cash flows from operating activities were $78.6 million in the third quarter of 2004 and $169.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2004. Capital expenditures were $8.7 million during the third quarter of 2004 and $19.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2004.
 
During the quarter, the Company repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $49.90 for a total of $81.3 million. There is approximately $119 million remaining under the Company's current repurchase authorization, which expires in July 2005.
 
2004 Outlook
 
The Company reaffirms its previous revenue guidance and raises its earnings guidance for the year. The Company projects that revenue for fiscal 2004 will be in a range of approximately $1,017 million to $1,022 million. Pro forma earnings per share are expected to range from $0.75 to $0.77 for the fourth quarter and $2.89 or greater for the fiscal year. The Company will provide further detail on its business outlook on the conference call today.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 3
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
The Company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 5:00 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
 
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (888) 396-2298 (domestic) or (617) 847-8708 (international) and use passcode 12329017. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and (617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 78365714.
 
About Invitrogen
 
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company globally employs approximately 4,000 scientists and other professionals. For more information about Invitrogen, visit the company's web site at www.invitrogen.com.
 
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding acquisition related amortization and other similar costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 4
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented on the following pages.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and pro forma earnings per share; 2) momentum in 2004; 3) ability to generate new products that will accelerate scientific research and our future growth; 4) integration of acquired businesses; and 5) ability to combine technologies of acquired businesses. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology, new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 5
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 6
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 7
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 8
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 9
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 10
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2004 Results
Page 11
 
 
 
 


