FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20040212090219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216, the following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure." The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibits shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission made by Invitrogen Corporation (the "Company") whether before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
     On February 12, 2004, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the year ended December 31, 2003. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
     Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and business integration costs.
     Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
     In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
     We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
: Eric Winzer (760) 603-7200
Investor and Financial Contacts
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its fourth quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2003. Revenues for the fourth quarter were $207.8 million, an increase of 28% over the $161.8 million reported for the fourth quarter of 2002. Net income for the fourth quarter was $12.6 million, an increase of 24% over the $10.2 million in 2002. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2003 was $0.24 per share, an increase of 20% over the $0.20 per share, reported in the fourth quarter of 2002.
CARLSBAD, CA, February 12, 2004
Revenues for the full-year 2003 were $777.7 million, an increase of 20% over the $648.6 million reported for 2002. Net income increased 26% for the year to $60.1 million from $47.7 million. Earnings per share for 2003 was $1.17, which compares to $0.90 per share in 2002, an increase of 30%.
The company has regularly reported pro forma results which exclude acquisition related amortization and other costs. Fourth quarter pro forma net income was $31.7 million, or $0.58 per share, compared with pro forma net income in the fourth quarter of 2002 of $20.0 million, or $0.39 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 58% and 49%, respectively. For the full year pro forma net income was $119.3 million, or $2.23 per share, compared with pro forma net income in 2002 of $97.0 million, or $1.81 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 23% for the full year. Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and pro forma results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables with information also presented on the Company's Investor Relations web page at www.invitrogen.com.
Fourth Quarter 2003 Highlights
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 2
Conference Call and Webcast Today at 11:00 am Eastern
The company will discuss its fourth quarter and full-year 2003 results and its business outlook on its conference call at 11:00 am Eastern Time today, including its 2004 guidance. Additional details regarding the call and webcast are included later in this release.
Fourth Quarter Review
Greg Lucier, Invitrogen's President and CEO, commented: "We continued to experience strong growth in our BioProduction segment and began to see renewed organic growth in our BioDiscovery segment this quarter. We are pleased with the momentum we are carrying into 2004 and with our recent acquisition of BioReliance Corporation, we continue to expand our capabilities as the preeminent supplier to the drug development and production market."
The fourth quarter revenue growth of 28% included 7% from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The 28% revenue growth was driven by BioDiscovery products where sales increased 31% in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002, principally due to the acquisition of well-positioned offerings from Molecular Probes, Pan Vera and InforMax. In addition, BioProduction revenues increased 23% in the fourth quarter principally related to increased sales of large scale production applications.
Fourth quarter 2003 gross margin was 58%, compared with 59% in the fourth quarter of 2002. Fourth quarter 2003 gross margin included $8.4 million in increased costs for inventories acquired with Pan Vera and Molecular Probes, which were recorded at fair value under purchase accounting rules. BioDiscovery gross margin increased to 69% in the fourth quarter of 2003 from 64% last year. Price increases, cost improvements, the inclusion of high-margin businesses acquired in the past year, and favorable changes in currency rates all contributed to the increase in BioDiscovery gross margins. BioProduction gross margin increased to 50% from 49% in the comparable quarter of 2002.
Operating income was 9% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2003 and in the fourth quarter of 2002. Amortization of purchased intangibles increased in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002 reflecting additional amortization for the InforMax, Pan Vera and Molecular Probes businesses acquired in the past year. Operating income before business integration costs and merger-related amortization was 24% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared with 19% in the fourth quarter of 2002. Higher gross margin more than offset the increased operating expenses resulting from our recent acquisitions, excluding merger-related amortization.
Fourth quarter interest income is lower than the same period of the prior year due to a decline in the yield of our investment portfolio, while interest expense is higher compared to the fourth quarter of 2002 because of the $350 million convertible debt offering completed in August of 2003.
The Company reduced its effective tax rate to 28.6% for the year ended December 31, 2003 reflecting higher R&D tax credits and generating more of our income in lower tax rate jurisdictions. The Company also reduced its year-to-date effective tax rate on pro forma earnings to 34.5%.
Cash flows from operating activities were $43.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 and $168.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Cash flows from operating activities during the fourth quarter were reduced by a $13.6 million payment to the Veterans Administration to settle a contract dispute associated with the former Life Technologies business acquired in 2000. This amount was fully accrued at the date of acquisition by Invitrogen. Capital expenditures were $12.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2003 and $32.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 3
In January of 2004, the Company expanded its foreign currency hedging program to hedge up to twelve months of future forecasted foreign currency cash flows. The goal of this program is to reduce the volatility of the Company's earnings and cash flows from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 11:00 am Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the company's Investor Relations website at www.invitrogen.com.
The conference call will be webcast live over the company's investor relations website at www.invitrogen.com and will be archived at the site for one month
To listen to the live conference call, please dial 877-407-9210 (toll free) or 201-689-8049 (international) after 10:50 am Eastern. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing 877-660-6853, and for international callers by dialing 201-612-7415, and using confirmation code 91285 and account number 1628.
About Invitrogen
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions, and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bio-production. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bio-informatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company globally employs approximately 3,800 scientists and other professionals. For more information about Invitrogen visit the company's web site at www.invitrogen.com.
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and business integration costs.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 4
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented on the following pages.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) organic growth in BioDiscovery; 2) momentum in 2004; and 3) statements regarding expanded capabilities as the preeminent supplier to the drug discovery and production market. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited a) the company's ability to identify promising technology, new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 5
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 6
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 7
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 8
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results Page 9


