FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20041018172915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1 - Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Invitrogen Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Employment Agreement effective on October 13, 2004, with David Hoffmeister for Mr. Hoffmeister to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Finance. Under the Agreement, Mr. Hoffmeister will receive a base salary at the annualized rate of $425,000, and he is entitled to receive an annual bonus pursuant to the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan. Mr. Hoffmeister's target bonus under the Incentive Compensation Plan has been guaranteed for his first year of employment, and Mr. Hoffmeister is eligible to receive an additional one time bonus under the Company's medium term incentive plan, payable in March 2007, provided certain conditions are met. Mr. Hoffmeister is also entitled to receive a one time signing bonus of $375,000, refundable to the Company on a pro rata basis in the event of his voluntary termination or termination for cause during the first two years of employment. The Agreement also provides for a $225,000 employment bonus payable on or before each of the first three anniversary dates of Mr. Hoffmeister's initial employment provided he is still employed by the Company on those dates or his employment was terminated for certain reasons. Mr. Hoffmeister received a grant of options to purchase 200,000 shares of the Company's common stock, as well as a grant of 50,000 restricted stock units, each subject to certain vesting provisions. The Agreement also provides Mr. Hoffmeister with severance benefits in the event of his termination for certain reasons. In connection with his employment, Mr. Hoffmeister also entered into Change-in-Control and Indemnification Agreements with the Company, as well as Incentive and Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreements and a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, each of which is filed as an exhibit to this Report.
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
The Company's Chief Financial Officer, C. Eric Winzer, resigned that position effective October 13, 2004. Effective as of the same date, the Company has appointed David Hoffmeister as its new Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Hoffmeister has held various positions for the past 20 years with McKinsey & Company, most recently since 1997 as a Director. Prior to joining McKinsey, Mr. Hoffmeister held financial positions at GTE and W.R. Grace. Mr. Hoffmeister received a BS, economics and business, from the University of Minnesota, and an MBA from the University of Chicago. Mr. Hoffmeister is 50 years old. The terms of Mr. Hoffmeister's employment are as set forth above under item 1.01.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
This Employment Agreement (the "") is made and entered into by and between Invitrogen Corporation (along with its successors and assigns, the "") and David F. Hoffmeister ("" and, along with the Company, a ""), effective as of October 13, 2004.
Agreement
Company
Executive
Party
 
1. .
Duties and Scope of Employment
 
(a) . Beginning on October 13, 2004 (the ) and during his subsequent employment hereunder (the ""), Executive shall serve as Chief Financial Officer, Sr. Vice President, Finance of the Company; shall have all duties and authorities customarily exercised by an individual serving as the chief financial officer of an entity of the size and nature of the Company; shall have such additional duties and authorities, consistent with the foregoing, as may from time to time be reasonably assigned to Executive by the CEO and/or the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") and shall report solely and directly to the CEO. During the Employment Term, Executive's principal office and principal place of employment shall be at the Company's headquarters, except to the extent otherwise agreed upon by the Parties. The Employment Term shall commence on the Employment Date and shall end on the date that Executive's employment hereunder terminates (the ""). (The Parties acknowledge that the use of the term "Employment Term" does not imply a specified period of time and is not intended to be contrary to the concept of employment "at will", as discussed in Section 2, below.)
Positions and Duties
"Employment Date"
Employment Term
Board
Termination Date
 
(b) . During the Employment Term, Executive will devote substantially all of his business efforts and time to the business and affairs of the Company. During the Employment Term, Executive agrees not to (i) serve on the board of any business organization without the prior approval of the Company, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld, or (ii) engage actively in any activity that would constitute a conflict of interest with Executive's employment with the Company; , , that Executive may, without the approval of the Company, (w) serve in any capacity with any civic, educational, charitable or professional organization, (x) engage in charitable activities and community affairs, (y) accept and fulfill a reasonable number of speaking engagements, and (z) manage his personal investments and affairs, in each case to the extent such activities do not impair, or otherwise conflict with, Executive's performance of his duties to the Company.
Obligations
provided
however
 
2. . The Parties each acknowledge that Executive's employment hereunder is at-will and may be terminated at any time with or without good cause or for any or no cause, at the option of either Party and on written notice to the other Party, and shall terminate automatically upon Executive's death, subject in all cases to the terms of this Agreement (including, without limitation, Section 5 below). The Parties understand and agree that neither Executive's job performance nor promotions, commendations, bonuses or the like from the Company shall give rise
At-Will Employment
to or in any way serve as the basis for modification, amendment, or extension, by implication or otherwise, of Executive's status as an at-will employee of the Company unless the provisions of Section 12 are complied with. However, as described in this Agreement, Executive may be entitled to severance benefits depending upon the circumstances of Executive's termination of employment.
 
3. .
Compensation
 
(a) . The Company will pay Executive, as compensation for Executive's services during the Employment Term, a base salary at the annualized rate of $425,000 (the ""). The Base Salary will be paid through payroll periods that are consistent with the Company's normal payroll practices (but no less frequently than monthly) and will be subject to required withholding. The Base Salary will be reviewed at least annually during the Employment Term by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of the Board (together with its successors, the "") to determine whether an increase in the Base Salary is appropriate. Any such increased Base Salary shall thereafter constitute "Base Salary" for all purposes of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive's Base Salary may be reduced during the Employment Term to the extent that salary reductions are then applied generally and uniformly to members of senior management of the Company.
Base Salary
Base Salary
C&O Committee
 
(b) . With respect to each fiscal year of the Company that ends during the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to receive an annual bonus (an ""), pursuant to the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan or any successor thereto (the ""), to the extent that the applicable performance criteria established pursuant to the ICP are satisfied. Executive's target ICP Bonus opportunity ("") for each fiscal year shall be no less than 50% of the Base Salary he earned during such year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive's ICP Bonus shall be guaranteed to be no less than ICP Target for one year beginning on the Employment Date and shall be paid automatically for such period, provided that such payments shall be prorated for the remainder of 2004 and for the portion of 2005 prior to the anniversary of the Employment Date. The balance of the 2005 ICP Bonus that is based on the portion of 2005 that follows the anniversary of the Employment Date will only be paid to the Executive if the Company attains its corporate financial targets for the 2005 year and to the extent Executive satisfies his individual targets, in accordance with the then-existing ICP. If the Company exceeds its corporate financial targets under the ICP in any year, Executive shall be eligible to participate in any payout that exceeds 100% of the ICP Target, subject to any adjustment that may be made based on individual performance, in accordance with the ICP. Any portion of the ICP Bonus guaranteed or earned for 2004 and 2005 shall be paid in April of 2005 and 2006, respectively, or on such earlier date upon which other senior executives of the Company are paid their corresponding ICP Bonuses. Executive acknowledges that the ICP Bonus for periods following the first anniversary of the Employment Date is not guaranteed in any respect. Any ICP Bonus earned shall be paid in cash through the Company's standard payroll methods, subject to required withholding. Except as referenced above, all other terms and conditions of the then current ICP Plan will apply.
Incentive Compensation Plan Bonus
ICP Bonus
ICP
ICP Target
 
(c) . As soon as practicable following the Employment Date, the Company will pay Executive a one-time cash signing bonus of $375,000 (the ""), less required withholding. If, prior to the second anniversary of the Employment Date, Executive's employment hereunder is terminated in a termination governed by Section 5(b) below (relating to Cause/voluntary terminations), then Executive shall repay an amount equal to (i) the Net Signing Bonus (as such term is defined below) (ii) a fraction, the of which equals twenty-four (24) less the number of full calendar months Executive has been employed hereunder and the of which is twenty-four (24). Such amount shall be due and payable no later than seven (7) days after the Termination Date. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means an amount equal to the Signing Bonus minus the sum of all federal, state and local income and employment taxes paid, or payable, by Executive in connection with the Signing Bonus, assuming for this purpose that the highest marginal tax rates apply.
Signing Bonus
Signing Bonus
times
numerator
denominator
Net Signing Bonus
 
(d) . The Company shall pay Executive a special cash bonus of $225,000 (the ""), less required withholdings, on or before each of the first three anniversaries of the Employment Date (, an aggregate of $675,000), but only if Executive is employed hereunder on the date such payment is due or if his employment hereunder has previously been terminated in a termination not governed by Section 5(b) below (relating to Cause/voluntary terminations).
Special Bonuses
Special Bonus
i.e.
 
(e) . The Company shall pay Executive a one-time, medium term incentive bonus (the "") in an amount equal to one year's ICP award at the 100% level (the ""), less applicable withholdings, provided that the Company achieves its financial targets (revenue growth and ROCE) in 2004, 2005, and 2006, under the Company's existing medium term incentive plan (the "") or any successor thereto. For purposes of this Agreement and all Exhibits to this Agreement, the term "MTIP" standing alone includes any multi-year incentive plan that (i) the Company determines is included in this definition, (ii) is referred to by the Company as a "medium term incentive plan" or "MTIP," and (iii) any plan, by whatever name, that is reasonably similar to the Current MTIP in terms of time period and payout. If earned, the Sign-On MTIP Bonus will be paid in March 2007 in cash and restricted stock or RSUs in accordance with the Current MTIP, but only if Executive is employed by the Company on the date such payment is made or as otherwise provided in Section 5 of this Agreement.
Sign-On MTIP Bonus
Sign-On MTIP Bonus
MTIP Target
Current MTIP
 
(f) . Effective as of the Employment Date, Executive shall be granted a ten-year stock option under the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan to purchase 200,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the Employment Date (the ""). Assuming continued employment, the Sign-On Option shall vest over a four-year period, vesting 25% on the first anniversary of the Employment Date and vesting an additional 1/16 of the total Sign-On Option at the end of each three-month anniversary of the Employment Date thereafter until the Sign-On Option is fully vested after four years. The option shall be in the form of an Incentive Stock Option (or "ISO") and subject to the terms of an Incentive Stock Option Agreement in the form attached
Sign-On Stock Option
Sign-On Option
 
hereto as to the extent allowed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable regulations, and to the extent not qualified as an ISO, shall be in the form of a Nonstatutory Stock Option subject to the terms of a Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement in the form attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
 
(g) . Effective as of the Employment Date, Executive shall be granted 50,000 restricted stock units under the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), pursuant to a Restricted Stock Units Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as . Assuming continued employment, such restricted stock units shall vest 100% on the third anniversary of the Employment Date.
Sign-On Restricted Stock Units
Sign-On RSU Award
Exhibit C
 
(h) . In addition to the amounts and awards described in Sections 3(a) through 3(g), Executive shall be eligible to receive, in the C&O Committee's (or the Board's) discretion, additional grants of stock options and other equity-based awards based on performance and consistent with the Company's regular compensation practices for other senior executive officers, taking into account Executive's position relative to other executives; , , that Executive will not be eligible for the Company's semi-annual grant of options and/or RSUs to be made in the fall of 2004. In determining the amount of any such future grants, the C&O Committee (and the Board) will not consider, or otherwise offset in any fashion, the amounts and awards provided under Section 3(c) through 3(g) above, except to the extent necessary to satisfy their fiduciary duty to the Company. The terms of any such future awards will be similar (other than as to amounts) to the terms of corresponding awards (if any) granted to other senior executive officers generally.
Additional Awards and Amounts
provided
however
 
(i) . During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all perquisites, and in all welfare, pension, retirement, income deferral, fringe, and other benefit plans, programs and arrangements, that are then maintained by the Company and that are of general applicability to other senior executives of the Company (including, without limitation, the Company's group medical, dental, vision, disability, life insurance, flexible-spending account, 401(k), annual physical, personal financial counseling, deferred compensation, and supplemental long term disability insurance plans, programs and arrangements), in each case at a level, and on terms and conditions, that are commensurate with Executive's positions and responsibilities at the Company. For avoidance of doubt, the Company reserves the right to cancel or change the benefit plans and programs it offers to its employees generally at any time.
Employee Benefits
 
(j) . The Company agrees to reimburse Executive for all expenses reasonably incurred by him in connection with the performance of his duties hereunder. Executive shall submit vouchers, invoices and such other documentation in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures established by the Company.
Business Expenses
 
(k) . During Executive's employment with the Company and for at least six (6) years thereafter, a directors' and officers' liability insurance policy (or policies) shall be kept in place providing coverage to Executive that is no less favorable to him in any respect (including, without limitation, with respect to scope, exclusions, amounts and deductibles) than the coverage then being provided to any other present or former officer or director of the Company.
D&O Insurance
 
4. . Executive shall use his best reasonable efforts to relocate his primary residence to San Diego County, California (or the nearby area) no later than six months after the Employment Date. To facilitate this relocation, Executive shall be entitled to the benefits outlined in the Executive Relocation Program provided to Executive.
Relocation Expenses
 
5. . Upon any termination of his employment hereunder for any reason, Executive shall receive prompt payment or provision, by wire transfer to the extent reasonably requested, of (i) Base Salary through the Termination Date, (ii) all accrued business and relocation expense reimbursements, (iii) all compensation previously earned but deferred by Executive (together with any accrued interest thereon) and not yet paid by the Company, (iv) except in the case of a termination governed by Section 5(b), the balance of any annual, long-term or other incentive award earned, but not yet paid, in respect of any period ending on or before the Termination Date and (v) any other benefits (other than severance benefits, except as provided below) due to Executive in accordance with any applicable plan, program, agreement, corporate governance document, or other arrangement of the Company or any of its affiliates (collectively, "") (the compensation and benefits described in clauses (i) through (v), collectively, being the ""). In addition, the following shall apply:
Severance
Company Arrangements
Accrued Obligations
 
(a) . If Executive's employment hereunder is terminated by the Company other than (x) for Cause in accordance with Section 5(e) below, (y) for disability in accordance with Section 5(f) below, or (z) due to Executive's death, or if Executive's employment hereunder is terminated by Executive with "Good Reason" (as defined in Section 5(g) below), then, in addition to the Accrued Obligations Executive shall be entitled :
Termination with Good Reason, Involuntary Termination other than for Cause
 
(i) to prompt payment, by wire transfer to the extent reasonably requested, of a lump-sum cash severance payment equal to 1.5 times the sum of Executive's annualized Base Salary, plus his annualized ICP Target, as of the Termination Date,
 
(ii) to prompt payment, by wire transfer to the extent reasonably requested, of a lump-sum cash severance payment equal to the Sign-On MTIP Bonus that Executive would have received had he remained employed hereunder through the 18 month anniversary of the Termination Date, assuming 100% achievement of all financial, performance and other targets;
 
(iii) to payment of any Special Bonus that has not yet been paid, with payment due at the same time such Special Bonus would have been due had Executive remained employed hereunder indefinitely;
 
(iv) to have any portion of the Sign-on Option and the Sign-On RSU Award that would have become vested had Executive remained employed hereunder through the 18 month anniversary of the Termination Date become immediately and fully vested, non-forfeitable, and exercisable (to the extent not previously exercised) as of the Termination Date, with the exercisable (and unexercised) portion of the Sign-On Option remaining exercisable through the first anniversary of the Termination Date; and
 
(v) to continued payment by the Company of the full cost of all group medical, dental and vision continuation coverage premiums for Executive and Executive's eligible dependents for 18 months following the Termination Date under COBRA and the Company's group health plan as then in effect.
 
The amounts payable to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement shall be determined without giving effect to any decrease in compensation or benefits that is in violation of the terms of this Agreement.
 
(b) . If Executive terminates his employment hereunder voluntarily, other than for Good Reason in accordance with Section 5(g) or Disability in accordance with Section 5(f), or if Executive's employment with the Company is terminated for Cause in accordance with Section 5(e), then Executive will receive the Accrued Obligations, and Executive shall not be entitled to any other compensation or benefits from the Company (including any severance payment described above in Section 5(a)), except to the extent provided under the applicable Company benefit plans or as may be required by law (for example, under COBRA).
Termination without Good Reason, Involuntary Termination for Cause
 
(c) . If Executive's employment hereunder is terminated due to disability in accordance with Section 5(f), or due to his death, then, in addition to the Accrued Obligations, the Executive (or his heirs, estate or legal representatives, as applicable) shall receive:
Death or Disability
 
(i) payment of any Special Bonus that has not yet been paid, with payment due at the same time such Special Bonus would have been due had Executive remained employed hereunder indefinitely,
 
(ii) prompt payment of a lump-sum cash amount equal to Executive's annualized ICP Target as of the Termination Date multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days elapsed in the calendar year of termination through the Termination Date, and the denominator of which is 365;
 
(iii) with respect to each MTIP award then outstanding, prompt payment of a lump-sum cash amount equal to the target award (assuming 100% achievement of all financial, performance and other targets) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the applicable performance period (e.g., three years) elapsed through the Termination Date and the denominator of which is the number of days in such performance period;
 
(iv) to have any portion of the Sign-on Option and the Sign-On RSU Award that would have become vested had Executive remained employed hereunder through the first anniversary anniversary of the Termination Date become immediately and fully vested, non-forfeitable, and exercisable (to the extent not previously exercised) as of the Termination Date, with the exercisable (but unexercised) portion of the Sign-On Option remaining exercisable through the first anniversary of the Termination Date; and
 
(v) to continued payment by the Company of the full cost of the group medical, dental and vision continuation coverage premiums for Executive and Executive's eligible dependents for up to 18 months under COBRA and the Company's group health plans, as then in effect.
 
(d) . Except for the Accrued Obligations and for benefits under Sections 5(a)(v) and 5(c)(v), any severance benefits provided pursuant to this Section 5 or Exhibits A, B or C of this Agreement will be provided to Executive only if the following conditions are satisfied: (i) Executive has not committed a willful and material violation of the surviving provisions of the New Hire Documents (as defined below), which violation has not been cured following a timely written demand for cure from the Company; and (ii) Executive has executed, and has not within seven days thereafter revoked, a mutual release agreement in substantially the form set forth in , which agreement the Company covenants and agrees to execute and return to Executive within seven days after receiving it from Executive, it being understood that the terms of Exhibit D may be amended by agreement of the Parties. Any such benefits provided by the terms of this Agreement will be provided to Executive as soon as practicable following the Termination Date.
Conditions to Receiving Lump-Sum Severance
Exhibit D
 
(e) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Term for "Cause" only in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
Cause
 
(i) For purposes of this Agreement, "" means (A) repeated violations by Executive of Executive's material responsibilities and material duties under this Agreement which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on Executive's part and which are not remedied in a reasonable period of time after receipt of written notice from the Company, (B) commission of a willful and material act of fraud, embezzlement or theft by Executive in connection with Executive's duties or in the course of Executive's employment with the Company or its affiliated companies, (C) willful and material violation of any law, regulation, or rule applicable to the Company's business or reputation, including, without limitation securities laws, (D) willful misconduct causing intentional wrongful damage to property of the Company or its affiliated companies, (E) willfully and wrongfully disclosing secret processes or confidential information of the Company or its affiliated companies, (F) willfully participating, without the Company's express written consent, in the management of any business enterprise which engages in substantial and direct competition with the Company or its affiliated
Cause
 
companies, or (G) conviction of, or plea of to, a felony, which conviction or plea materially harms the business or reputation of the Company, provided that in the case of clauses (A) through (F), any such act or omission constituted willful gross misconduct and shall have been materially harmful to the Company or its affiliates. For purposes of this definition, no act or failure to act shall be deemed "willful" unless effected by Executive not in good faith and without a reasonable belief that such action or failure to act was in or not opposed to the Company's best interests.
nolo contendere
 
(ii) The Company may not terminate the Executive's employment for Cause under clause (A) through (F) of the definition set forth above (a) the Company provides Executive with written notice of its intent to consider termination of Executive's employment for Cause, including a detailed description of the specific reasons which form the basis for such consideration; (b) within thirty (30) days after the date such notice is provided, Executive shall have a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board, with or without legal representation, at Executive's election, to present arguments and evidence on his own behalf to defend such act or acts, or failure to act, and, if such act or failure to act is correctable, Executive shall be given thirty (30) days after such meeting to correct such act or failure to act; and (c) following presentation to the Board as provided in clause (b) above or Executive's failure to appear before the Board at a date and time specified in the notice and, following expiration of the thirty (30) day period in which to correct such acts or failures to act that are correctable, Executive's employment may be terminated for Cause only if (1) the Board, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its members (excluding Executive and any other member of the Board reasonably believed by the Board to be involved in the events leading the Board to terminate Executive's employment hereunder for Cause), determines that the acts or failures to act of Executive specified in the notice occurred and remained uncorrected, and Executive's employment should accordingly be terminated for Cause; and (2) the Board provides Executive with a written determination setting forth in specific detail the basis of such termination of employment, which basis must be consistent with the reasons set forth in the notice. Any determination that Cause existed shall, for avoidance of doubt, be subject to review in arbitration under Section 11 below.
unless
de
novo
 
(f) . For purposes of this Agreement, "" means Executive being unable to perform the principal functions of his duties hereunder due to physical or mental impairment, but only if such inability has lasted, or should reasonably be expected to last, for at least six (6) months. Whether Executive is Disabled will be determined by the Board in good faith, based on evidence provided by one or more physicians selected by the Board. In the event that Executive becomes Disabled, either Party may terminate his employment hereunder on no less than twenty (20) days' notice to the other Party.
Disabled
Disabled
 
(g) . Executive's employment hereunder may be terminated by Executive, on no less than twenty (20) days' prior notice to the Company, following the occurrence of "Good Reason." For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the occurrence, without Executive's prior express written consent (except in consequence of a prior termination of Executive's employment), of any of the following circumstances during the Employment Term:
Good Reason
Good Reason
 
(i) a substantial diminution in Executive's position, authority, duties, or responsibilities, excluding non-substantial changes in title or office, and excluding any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after written notice thereof is given to the Company by Executive;
 
(ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any provision of Section 3 or 4 of this Agreement (or, for avoidance of doubt, with the terms of any award granted pursuant to such Sections), other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after written notice thereof is given to the Company by Executive;
 
(iii) any purported termination of Executive's employment hereunder for Cause which is not effected in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(e) above; or
 
(iv) any failure of the Company to obtain, prior to the closing of any transaction that results in a Change in Control of the Company (as defined in the Change-In-Control Agreement), an agreement from any successor, satisfactory to Executive in his sole discretion, to assume and agree to perform this Agreement.
 
(h) . Upon termination of his employment hereunder, Executive will not be entitled to any severance benefits under any Company severance plan, policy, or practice, except to the extent provided in this Agreement or in the Change-in-Control Agreement described in Section 6(a) below. Any benefits to which Executive is entitled under this Agreement shall be offset against benefits to which Executive is, or becomes, entitled under the Change-in-Control Agreement.
Exclusive Severance Benefits; Offset for Change-in-Control Benefits
 
6. .
Additional Documentation
 
(a) . The Parties agree to execute, on or before the Employment Date and effective as of the Employment Date, a Change-in-Control Agreement and an Indemnification Agreement, in substantially the forms attached hereto as respectively (together, the "").
Executive Documents
Exhibits E and F
Executive Documents
 
(b) . Executive agrees to execute, on or before the Employment Date and effective as of the Employment Date, the following standard documentation required from all new employees: the Company's Protocol Certification, Information and Technology Agreement, Trade Secrets Policy, Insider Trading Policy, and Electronic Communications Policy (together, the ""), copies of which have been provided to Executive.
Standard New Hire Documents
New Hire Documents
 
7. .
Assignment
 
(a) This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective legal representatives and assigns, and (in the case of Executive) his heirs, beneficiaries and executors.
 
(b) No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by it except that such rights and obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger, consolidation or other combination in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or a sale or liquidation of all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company, provided that the assignee or transferee is the successor to all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company and such assignee or transferee expressly assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company as set forth in this Agreement. In the event of any merger, consolidation, other combination, sale of business and assets, or liquidation as described in the preceding sentence, the Company shall use its best reasonable efforts to cause such assignee or transferee to promptly and expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company hereunder.
 
(c) None of the rights or obligations of Executive under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by Executive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under applicable law and applicable Company Arrangements and by giving notice thereof to the Company, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit hereunder following Executive's death. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, references in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to his beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
 
8. . Any notice, consent, demand, request, or other communication given to any person or entity in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given to such person or entity (x) when delivered personally to such person or entity or (y), provided that a written acknowledgment of receipt is obtained, four days after being sent by prepaid certified or registered mail, or (z) one day after being sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier, to the address (if any) specified below for such person or entity (or to such other address as such person or entity shall have specified by ten days' advance notice given in accordance with this Section 8):
Notices
 
 
 
 
 
9. . In the event that any provision hereof becomes or is declared by any arbitrator(s), or court, of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable or void, this Agreement will continue in full force and effect without said provision.
Severability
 
10. . This Agreement, and the documents and agreements expressly referred to in this Agreement represent the entire agreement and understanding between the Parties concerning the subject matter hereof and Executive's employment relationship with the Company, and supersede and replace any and all prior or contemporaneous agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, between the Parties.
Entire Agreement
 
11. .
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
 
(a) Except as provided in Section 11(d) below, the Parties agree that to the extent permitted by law, any dispute or controversy arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement, or the documents referred to in it (including, without limitation, the interpretation, validity, construction, performance, or breach thereof), Executive's employment with the Company, or any termination of such employment, shall be settled by arbitration to be held at a location within thirty (30) miles of Carlsbad, California, in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association. The award of the arbitrator(s) shall be in writing and shall state the essential findings and conclusions on which the award is based. In addition to monetary relief, the arbitrators may grant injunctions or other equitable relief in any such dispute or controversy. Any award by the arbitrator(s) shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Parties to the arbitration. Judgment may be entered on any award by the arbitrator(s) in any court having jurisdiction.
 
(b) The arbitrator will apply California law to the merits of any dispute or claim, without reference to rules of conflict of law. Executive hereby expressly consents to the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in California for any action or proceeding arising from or relating to this Agreement and/or relating to any arbitration in which the parties are participants.
 
(c) The Company shall pay the direct costs and expenses of any arbitration, or court proceeding, under this Section 11. Each Party shall separately pay such Party's own counsel fees and expenses; , , that the Company shall promptly reimburse Executive (or his beneficiaries) for all expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees) he (or his beneficiaries) reasonably incurs to the extent that Executive (or his beneficiaries) substantially prevails in the proceeding in question.
provided
however
 
(d) Either Party may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or other interim or conservatory relief, as necessary to enforce the provisions of the New Hire Documents or this Section 11, without breach of this Section 11 and without abridgement of the powers of the arbitrator(s).
 
(e) EACH PARTY HAS READ AND UNDERSTANDS SECTION 11, WHICH DISCUSSES ARBITRATION. EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, SUCH PARTY AGREES, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, TO SUBMIT ANY FUTURE CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE, BREACH, OR TERMINATION THEREOF, TO BINDING ARBITRATION, AND THAT THIS ARBITRATION CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF EACH PARTY'S RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALL ASPECTS OF THE EMPLOYER/EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIP, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING CLAIMS:
 
(i) ANY AND ALL CLAIMS FOR WRONGFUL DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYMENT; BREACH OF CONTRACT, BOTH EXPRESS AND IMPLIED; BREACH OF THE COVENANT OF GOOD FAITH AND FAIR DEALING, BOTH EXPRESS AND IMPLIED; NEGLIGENT OR INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS; NEGLIGENT OR INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION; NEGLIGENT OR INTENTIONAL INTERFERENCE WITH CONTRACT OR PROSPECTIVE ECONOMIC ADVANTAGE; AND DEFAMATION;
 
(ii) ANY AND ALL CLAIMS FOR VIOLATION OF ANY FEDERAL STATE OR MUNICIPAL STATUTE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990, THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT, AND ANY LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA; AND
 
(iii) ANY AND ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF ANY OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO EMPLOYMENT OR EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION.
 
12. . No provision in this Agreement may be changed unless such change is set forth in a writing that expressly refers to the provision(s) of this Agreement that are being changed and that is signed by Executive and by the Chief Executive Officer, Sr. Vice President of Human Resources, or General Counsel of the Company. No waiver by any person or entity of any breach of any condition or provision contained in this Agreement shall be effective unless such person or entity sets forth such waiver in a signed writing that expressly refers to the provision(s) of this Agreement whose control such person or entity is waiving.
Amendments and Waivers
 
13. . Notwithstanding anything elsewhere to the contrary, the Company is authorized to withhold, or cause to be withheld, from any payment or benefit under this Agreement the full amount of any required withholding taxes.
Withholding
 
14. . The amounts payable, and benefits provided, to Executive pursuant to this Agreement (including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 5) will not be subject to any requirement of mitigation, nor, except as specifically set forth herein, will they be offset, or otherwise reduced, because Executive (or his beneficiaries) receive compensation or benefits from any source other than the Company.
No Mitigation
 
15. . This Agreement will be governed by the law of the State of California, without regard to its conflicts of laws principles).
Governing Law
 
16. . Each Party agrees to use such Party's best reasonable efforts to keep this Agreement confidential (other than with respect to professional advisors, immediate family members, and the like) until the Employment Date. The Parties acknowledge and agree that Invitrogen shall be free to make any governmental filings, including SEC filings that include copies of this and related agreements, as required by law.
Confidentiality
 
17. . The Company agrees to reimburse Executive, on an after-tax basis, for all legal and professional fees and costs incurred by Executive in connection with the discussion, negotiation and documentation of this employment arrangement and of certain alternative employment arrangements with another company.
Legal Fees
 
18. . Each Party acknowledges that such Party has discussed this Agreement with and, obtained advice from an attorney; has carefully read and fully understands all the provisions of this Agreement; and is knowingly and voluntarily entering into this Agreement.
Acknowledgment
 
19. . In the event of any conflict between any provision of this Agreement and any provision of any other Company Arrangement, the provision(s) of this Agreement shall control unless Executive otherwise agrees in a writing that expressly refers to the provisions of this Agreement whose control he is waiving. There shall be no contractual or similar restrictions on Executive's right to terminate his employment with the Company, or on his post-employment activities, other than restrictions expressly set forth in this Agreement, the New Hire Documents, or the Executive Documents and restrictions, consistent with this Agreement, enforceable solely through loss of benefits to which he might otherwise be entitled.
Conflicts
 
20. .
Representations
 
(a) The Company represents and warrants that (i) it is fully authorized by action of the C&O Committee (and of any other person or body whose action is required) to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations under it, (ii) to the best of its knowledge and belief, the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by it does not violate any applicable law, regulation, order, judgment or decree or any Company Arrangement and (iii) upon the execution and
 
delivery of this Agreement by the Parties, this Agreement shall be its valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
 
(b) Executive represents and warrants that (i) to the best of his knowledge and belief, delivery and performance of this Agreement by him does not violate any law, regulation, order, judgment or decree applicable to him or any agreement by which he is bound and (ii) upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Parties, this Agreement shall be a valid and binding obligation of Executive, enforceable against him in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
 
21. . The headings of the Sections and sub-sections contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.
Headings
 
22. . Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the respective rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall survive any termination of Executive's employment hereunder.
Survivorship
 
23. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument. Signatures delivered by facsimile shall be effective for all purposes.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as set forth below:
 
EXECUTIVE
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
Effective October 13, 2004, you have been granted an Incentive Stock Option to buy approximately 7272 shares of Invitrogen Corporation common stock at $55.00 per share.
 
Shares will become fully vested in the amounts and on the dates shown below.
 
 
 
 
THIS INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of Date of Option Grant, by and between Invitrogen Corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "Company") and the individual (the "") named in the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Options (the "").
Option Agreement
Optionee
Notice of Grant
 
Pursuant to the Invitrogen Corporation 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "") and the Employment Agreement (as defined below) the Company has granted to the Optionee an option to purchase certain shares of Stock, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Employment Agreement and this Option Agreement, including the Notice of Grant (the ""). The Option shall in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Plan
Option
 
1.
.
Definitions and Construction
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
.
Definitions
 
(a) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company. If one or more Committees have been appointed by the Board to administer stock options granted by the Company, "Board" shall also mean such Committee(s).
Board
 
(b) shall mean "Cause" as defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
"Cause"
 
(c) "" means the Change-in-Control Agreement entered into between the Company and the Optionee dated as of October 13, 2004, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms, and "Change in Control" means "Change in Control" as defined in the Change-in-Control Agreement.
Change-in-Control Agreement
 
(d) "" means the effective date shown in the Notice of Grant.
Date of Option Grant
 
(e) "" shall mean the Optionee is "Disabled" as such term is defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
Disability
 
(f) "" means that certain employment agreement entered into by and between the Company and the Optionee effective as of October 13, 2004, as amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Employment Agreement
(g) "" means the purchase price per share of Stock shown in the Notice of Grant, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 9.
Exercise Price
 
(h) "" shall mean "Good Reason" as defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
Good Reason
 
(i) "" means the number of shares of Stock shown in the Notice of Grant, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 9.
Number of Option Shares
 
(j) "" means, on any relevant date, the Number of Option Shares which are vested and unexpired as determined by applying the vesting schedule shown in the Notice of Grant to the period of Optionee's continuous Service and giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1.
Vested Shares
 
(k) "" means the relevant Expiration date shown in the Notice of Grant.
Option Expiration Date
 
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Option Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
.
Construction
 
2.
.
Tax Consequences
 
2.1 Incentive Stock Option. This Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code, but the Company does not represent or warrant that this Option qualifies as such. The Optionee should consult with the Optionee's own tax advisor regarding the tax effects of this Option and the requirements necessary to obtain favorable income tax treatment under Section 422 of the Code, including, but not limited to, holding period requirements (NOTE: If the Option is exercised more than three (3) months after the date on which you cease to be an Employee (other than by reason of your death or Disability), the Option will be treated as a Nonstatutory Stock Option and not as an Incentive Stock Option to the extent required by Section 422 of the Code).
 
2.2 Incentive Stock Option Fair Market Value Limitation. To the extent that the Option (together with all Incentive Stock Options granted to the Optionee under all stock option plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) becomes exercisable for the first time during any calendar year for shares having a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portion of such options which exceeds such amount will be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 2.2, options designated as Incentive Stock Options are taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of Stock is determined as of the time the option with respect to such Stock is granted. If the Code is amended to provide for a different limitation from that set forth in this Section 2.2, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the date
 
required or permitted by such amendment to the Code. If the Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section 2.2, the Optionee may designate which portion of such Option the Optionee is exercising. In the absence of such designation, the Optionee shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first. Separate certificates representing each such portion shall be issued upon the exercise of the Option. (NOTE: If the aggregate Exercise Price of the Option (that is, the Exercise Price multiplied by the Number of Option Shares) plus the aggregate exercise price of any other Incentive Stock Options you hold (whether granted pursuant to the Plan or any other stock option plan of the Participating Company Group) is greater than $100,000, you should contact the Chief Financial Officer of the Company to ascertain whether the entire Option qualifies as an Incentive Stock Option.)
 
3. All questions of interpretation concerning this Option Agreement shall be determined by the Board. All good faith determinations by the Board that are consistent with this Agreement, the Employment Agreement, and the Change-in-Control Agreement shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Option. Any officer of the Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
.
Administration
 
4.
.
Exercise of the Option
 
4.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, the Option shall be exercisable prior to the termination of the Option (as provided in Section 6) in an amount not to exceed the number of Vested Shares less the number of shares previously acquired upon exercise of the Option. In no event shall the Option be exercisable for more shares than the Number of Option Shares.
.
Right to Exercise
 
4.2 Exercise of the Option shall be by written notice to the Company which must state the election to exercise the Option, the number of whole shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised and such other representations and agreements as to the Optionee's investment intent with respect to such shares as may be required pursuant to the provisions of this Option Agreement. The written notice must be signed by the Optionee and must be delivered in person, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by confirmed facsimile transmission, or by such other means as the Company may permit, to the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, or other authorized representative of the Participating Company Group, prior to the termination of the Option as set forth in Section 6, accompanied by an arrangement for full payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased and of any amounts due under Section 4.4 with respect to taxes; provided, however, that no such arrangement shall include a loan by the Company to Optionee. The Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such written notice and the aggregate Exercise Price.
.
Method of Exercise
 
4.3 .
Payment of Exercise Price
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised shall be made (i) in cash, by check, or cash equivalent, (ii) by tender to the Company of whole shares of Stock owned by the Optionee having a Fair Market Value (as determined by the Company without regard to any restrictions on transferability applicable to such stock by reason of federal or state securities laws or agreements with an underwriter for the Company) not less than the aggregate Exercise Price, (iii) by means of a Cashless Exercise, as defined in Section 4.3(c), or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company of shares of Stock to the extent such tender of Stock would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock. The Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Optionee for more than six (6) months or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
Tender of Stock.
 
(c) A "" means the assignment in a form acceptable to the Company of the proceeds of a sale with respect to some or all of the shares of Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option pursuant to a program, procedure or individual transaction approved by the Company (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, to decline to approve or terminate any such program, procedure or individual transaction.
Cashless Exercise.
Cashless Exercise
 
4.4 At the time the Option is exercised, in whole or in part, or at any time thereafter as requested by the Company, the Optionee hereby authorizes withholding by the Company or any agent of the Company (i.e., bank, broker) from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Optionee, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for (including by means of a Cashless Exercise to the extent permitted by the Company), any sums required to satisfy the employee portion of any federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group, if any, which arise in connection with any exercise of the Option, including, without limitation, obligations arising upon (i) the exercise, in whole or in part, of the Option, (ii) the transfer, in whole or in part, of any shares acquired upon exercise of the Option, (iii) the operation of any law or regulation providing for the imputation of interest, or (iv) the lapsing of any restriction with respect to any shares acquired upon exercise of the Option. Without limiting the foregoing, the Optionee shall have the right to satisfy, in whole or in part, the employee portion of any withholding tax obligation that may arise in connection with any exercise of the Option either by electing to have the Company withhold from the shares of Stock to be delivered upon exercise that number of shares, or by electing to deliver to the Company already-owned shares, in either case having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the amount necessary to satisfy the statutory minimum withholding amount due. The Optionee is cautioned that the Option is not exercisable unless the tax withholding obligations of the
.
Tax Withholding
 
Participating Company Group are satisfied. Accordingly, the Optionee may not be able to exercise the Option when desired even though the Option is vested, and the Company shall have no obligation to issue a certificate for such shares or release such shares from any escrow provided for herein.
 
4.5 Except in the event the Exercise Price is paid by means of a Cashless Exercise, the certificate for the shares as to which the Option is exercised shall be registered in the name of the Optionee or, if applicable, in the names of the Optionee and his/her spouse, or in the names of the heirs of the Optionee.
.
Certificate Registration
 
4.6 The grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. The Option may not be exercised if the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, the Option may not be exercised unless (i) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of exercise of the Option be in effect with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option or (ii) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. THE OPTIONEE IS CAUTIONED THAT THE OPTION MAY NOT BE EXERCISED UNLESS THE FOREGOING CONDITIONS ARE SATISFIED. ACCORDINGLY, THE OPTIONEE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXERCISE THE OPTION WHEN DESIRED EVEN THOUGH THE OPTION IS VESTED. Questions concerning this restriction should be directed to the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares subject to the Option shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Optionee to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
Restrictions on Grant of the Option and Issuance of Shares.
 
4.7 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise of the Option.
.
Fractional Shares
 
5. The Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee or the Optionee's guardian or legal representative and may not be assigned or transferred in any manner except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Following the death of the Optionee, the Option, to the extent provided in Section 7, may be exercised by the Optionee's legal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Optionee's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
.
Nontransferability of the Option
 
6. The Option shall terminate and may no longer be exercised on the first to occur of (a) the Option Expiration Date, (b) the last date for exercising the Option following termination of the Optionee's Service as described in Section 7, or (c) a Change in Control to the extent provided in the Change-in-Control Agreement.
.
Termination of the Option
 
7.
.
Effect of Termination of Service
 
7.1
Vesting Upon Termination of Service Under Certain Circumstances
 
(a) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated because of the Disability or death of the Optionee, the Option shall become, upon such termination of Service, vested and exercisable with respect to the number of Option Shares for which the Option would have been vested and exercisable had the Optionee's Service continued for an additional twelve (12) months. For purposes of this Section 7.1(a), the Optionee's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Optionee dies within three (3) months after the Optionee's termination of Service other than upon a termination for "Cause" and if the result is more favorable to the Optionee, with respect to vesting, than it would otherwise be.
.
Death or Disability
 
(b) If the Optionee's employment under the Employment Agreement is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by the Optionee with Good Reason, the Option shall become, upon such termination of employment, vested and exercisable with respect to the number of Option Shares for which the Option would have been vested and exercisable had the Optionee's employment continued for an additional eighteen (18) months.
Termination Without Cause or With Good Reason
.
 
7.2
Option Exercisability
 
(a) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated because of the Disability of the Optionee, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, (after giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1) may be exercised by the Optionee (or the Optionee's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Disability.
 
(b) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated because of the death of the Optionee, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated (after giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1), may be exercised by the Optionee's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Optionee's death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. For purposes of this Section 7.2(b), the Optionee's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Optionee dies within three (3) months after the Optionee's termination of Service other than upon a termination for "Cause" and if the result is more favorable to the Optionee, with respect to exercisability, than it would otherwise be.
Death.
 
(c) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated voluntarily by the Optionee without Good Reason (excluding for this purpose any termination due to Disability or death), the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Optionee on the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Optionee at any time within three (3) months (or such other longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion) after the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. If the Optionee's employment under the Employment Agreement is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by the Optionee with Good Reason, the Option to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Optionee on the date on which the Optionee's employment terminated (after giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1), may be exercised by the Optionee at any time within twelve (12) months (or such other longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion) after the date on which the Optionee's employment terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
7.3 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of the Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.2 is prevented by the provisions of Section 4.6, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date the Optionee is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Company makes no representation as to the tax consequences of any such delayed exercise. The Optionee should consult with the Optionee's own tax advisor as to the tax consequences to the Optionee of any such delayed exercise.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law
 
7.4 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Option Agreement, if the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated for Cause, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable on the effective date of such termination of Service.
.
Termination for Cause
 
8. This Option shall also become vested in the circumstances, and to the extent, provided in the Change-in-Control Agreement. Upon such vesting the Option shall continue to be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan.
.
Effect of Change in Control on Options
 
9. In the event of any stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, combination, reclassification, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number, Exercise Price and class of shares of stock subject to the Option. If a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to the Option are exchanged for, converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the ""), the Board may unilaterally amend the Option to provide that the Option is exercisable for New Shares. In the event of any such amendment, the Number of Option Shares and the Exercise Price shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner, as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
.
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure
New Shares
 
fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 9 shall be rounded up or down to the nearest whole number, as determined by the Board, and in no event may the Exercise Price be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Option. The adjustments determined by the Board pursuant to this Section 9 shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
10. The Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Option until the date of the issuance of a certificate for, or other valid delivery of, the shares for which the Option has been exercised (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 9. If the Optionee is an Employee, the Optionee understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in the Employment Agreement, the Optionee's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Option Agreement shall confer upon the Optionee, whether an Employee or Consultant, any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Optionee's Service as an Employee or Consultant, as the case may be, at any time.
.
Rights as a Stockholder, Employee or Consultant
 
11. The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock subject to the provisions of this Option Agreement. The Optionee shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the possession of the Optionee in order to carry out the provisions of this Section.
.
Legends
 
12. The Optionee shall dispose of the shares acquired pursuant to the Option only in accordance with the provisions of this Option Agreement. In addition, the Optionee shall promptly notify the Chief Financial Officer of the Company if the Optionee disposes of any of the shares acquired pursuant to the Option within one (1) year after the date the Optionee exercises all or part of the Option or within two (2) years after the Date of Option Grant and shall provide the Company with a description of the terms and circumstances of such disposition. Until such time as the Optionee disposes of such shares in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Option Agreement, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Company, the Optionee shall hold all shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the Optionee's name (and not in the name of any nominee) for the one-year period immediately after the exercise of the Option and the two-year period immediately after Date of Option Grant. At any time during the one-year or two-year periods set forth above, the Company may place a legend on any certificate representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option requesting the transfer agent for the Company's stock to notify the Company of any such transfers. The obligation of the Optionee to notify the Company of any such transfer shall continue notwithstanding that a legend has been placed on the certificate pursuant to the preceding sentence.
.
Notice of Sales Upon Disqualifying Disposition
 
13. No shares acquired upon exercise of the Option may be sold, exchanged, transferred (including, without limitation, any transfer to a nominee or agent of the Optionee), assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, including by operation of law, in any manner which violates any of the provisions of Section 12 of this Option Agreement, and any such attempted disposition shall be void. The Company shall not be required (a) to transfer on its books any shares which will have been transferred in violation of any of the provisions set forth in this Option Agreement or (b) to treat as owner of such shares or to accord the right to vote as such owner or to pay dividends to any transferee to whom such shares will have been so transferred.
.
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares
 
14. Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this Option Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. In the event of the Optionee's death or a judicial determination of his incapacity, references to "the Optionee" in this Agreement shall be deemed, as appropriate, to be references to his heirs, estate or other legal representative(s).
.
Binding Effect
 
15. The Board may terminate or amend the Plan or the Option at any time; provided, however, that no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Option or any unexercised portion hereof without the consent of the Optionee unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation or is required to enable the Option to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option. No amendment or addition to this Option Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
.
Termination or Amendment
 
16. Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in the manner set forth in the Employment Agreement.
.
Notices
 
17. This Option Agreement, the Notice of Grant, the Plan, the Employment Agreement, together with its Exhibits and other documents referenced in the Employment Agreement, and the Change-in-Control Agreement constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Optionee and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein or therein, and there are no agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Optionee and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter other than those as set forth or provided for herein or therein. To the extent contemplated herein or therein, the provisions of this Option Agreement shall survive any exercise of the Option and shall remain in full force and effect. In the event of any conflict between this Option Agreement and the Notice of Grant, this Option Agreement shall control, and in the event of any conflict between the Employment Agreement and this Option Agreement or the Notice of Grant the Employment Agreement shall control.
.
Integrated Agreement
 
18. This Option Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
.
Applicable Law
 
19. Optionee represents that Optionee is familiar with the terms and provisions of this Option Agreement, including the Notice of Grant, and hereby accepts the Option subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof. The Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any questions arising under this Option Agreement. Without limitation of the foregoing, Optionee agrees that by executing the Notice of Grant Optionee acknowledges and agrees that:
.
Acceptance and Acknowledgement by Optionee
 
19.1 . Optionee has been provided with a copy or electronic access to a copy of the Prospectus for the Plan;
Prospectus
 
19.2 . The Plan is discretionary in nature, and the Company may amend, cancel or terminate the Plan in its sole discretion at any time, subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable limitations imposed by law. The grant of stock options under the Plan is a one-time benefit and does not create any contractual or other right to receive a grant of stock options or benefits in lieu of stock options in the future. Future grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company, including, but not limited to, the timing of any grant, the number of options, vesting provisions and the exercise price;
Discretionary Nature of Plan
 
19.3 . Participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of an Option is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of any employment contract. As such, an Option is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. The future value of the underlying Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and
Voluntary Participation
 
19.4 . Optionee acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise agreed upon in writing between Optionee and the Company, Optionee will have no entitlement to compensation or damages in consequence of the termination of Optionee's employment with the Company or any subsidiary for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of contract, insofar as such entitlement arises or may arise from ceasing to have rights under or from ceasing to be entitled to exercise stock options (provided that any such cessation is in accordance with the Plan) as a result of such termination or from the loss or diminution in value of this Option, and, upon the grant of this Option, Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any such entitlement.
Exclusion of Claims
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
Effective October 13, 2004, you have been granted a Nonstatutory Stock Option to buy approximately 192,728 shares of Invitrogen Corporation common stock at $55.00 per share.
 
Shares will become fully vested in the amounts and on the dates shown below.
 
 
 
THIS NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of Date of Option Grant, by and between Invitrogen Corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "") and the individual (the "") named in the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Options (the "").
Option Agreement
Company
Optionee
Notice of Grant
 
Pursuant to the Invitrogen Corporation 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "") and the Employment Agreement (as defined below), the Company has granted to the Optionee an option to purchase certain shares of Stock, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Employment Agreement and this Option Agreement, including the Notice of Grant (the ""). The Option shall in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Plan
Option
 
1. .
Definitions and Construction
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
.
Definitions
 
(a) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company. If one or more Committees have been appointed by the Board to administer stock options granted by the Company, "Board" shall also mean such Committee(s).
Board
 
(b) shall mean "Cause" as defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
"Cause"
 
(c) "" means the Change-in-Control Agreement entered into between the Company and the Optionee dated as of October 13, 2004, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms, and "Change in Control" means "Change in Control" as defined in the Change-in-Control Agreement.
Change-in-Control Agreement
 
(d) "" shall mean the Optionee is "Disabled" as such term is defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
Disability
 
(e) means the effective date shown in the Notice of Grant.
"Date of Option Grant"
 
(f) "" means the Employment Agreement entered into by and between the Company and the Optionee effective October 13, 2004, as amended 3from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Employment Agreement
 
(g) "" means the purchase price per share of Stock shown in the Notice of Grant, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 9.
Exercise Price
 
(h) "" shall mean "Good Reason" as defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
Good Reason
 
(i) "" means the number of shares of Stock shown in the Notice of Grant, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 9.
Number of Option Shares
 
(j) "" means, on any relevant date, the Number of Option Shares which are vested and unexpired as determined by applying the vesting schedule shown in the Notice of Grant to the period of Optionee's continuous Service and giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1.
Vested Shares
 
(k) "" means the relevant Expiration date shown in the Notice of Grant.
Option Expiration Date
 
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Option Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
.
Construction
 
2. This Option is intended to be a Nonstatutory Stock Option and shall not be treated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
.
Tax Consequences
 
3. All questions of interpretation concerning this Option Agreement shall be determined by the Board. All good faith determinations by the Board that are consistent with this Agreement, the Employment Agreement and the Change-in-Control Agreement shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Option. Any officer of the Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
.
Administration
 
4. .
Exercise of the Option
 
4.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, the Option shall be exercisable prior to the termination of the Option (as provided in Section 6) in an amount not to exceed the number of Vested Shares less the number of shares previously acquired upon exercise of the Option. In no event shall the Option be exercisable for more shares than the Number of Option Shares.
.
Right to Exercise
 
4.2 Exercise of the Option shall be by written notice to the Company which must state the election to exercise the Option, the number of whole shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised and such other representations and agreements as
.
Method of Exercise
 
to the Optionee's investment intent with respect to such shares as may be required pursuant to the provisions of this Option Agreement. The written notice must be signed by the Optionee and must be delivered in person, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by confirmed facsimile transmission, or by such other means as the Company may permit, to the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, or other authorized representative of the Participating Company Group, prior to the termination of the Option as set forth in Section 6, accompanied by an arrangement for full payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased and of any amounts due under Section 4.4 with respect to taxes; provided, however, that no such arrangement shall include a loan by the Company to Optionee. The Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such written notice and the aggregate Exercise Price.
 
4.3
Payment of Exercise Price
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised shall be made (i) in cash, by check, or cash equivalent, (ii) by tender to the Company of whole shares of Stock owned by the Optionee having a Fair Market Value (as determined by the Company without regard to any restrictions on transferability applicable to such stock by reason of federal or state securities laws or agreements with an underwriter for the Company) not less than the aggregate Exercise Price, (iii) by means of a Cashless Exercise, as defined in Section 4.3(c), or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing.
.
Forms of Consideration Authorized
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company of shares of Stock to the extent such tender of Stock would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock. The Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Optionee for more than six (6) months or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
.
Tender of Stock
 
(c) A "" means the assignment in a form acceptable to the Company of the proceeds of a sale with respect to some or all of the shares of Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option pursuant to a program, procedure or individual transaction approved by the Company (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, to decline to approve or terminate any such program, procedure or individual transaction.
.
Cashless Exercise
Cashless Exercise
 
4.4 At the time the Option is exercised, in whole or in part, or at any time thereafter as requested by the Company, the Optionee hereby authorizes withholding by the Company or any agent of the Company (i.e., bank, broker) from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Optionee, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for (including by means of a Cashless Exercise to the extent permitted by the Company), any sums required to satisfy the employee portion of any federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of
.
Tax Withholding
 
the Participating Company Group, if any, which arise in connection with any exercise of the Option, including, without limitation, obligations arising upon (i) the exercise, in whole or in part, of the Option, (ii) the transfer, in whole or in part, of any shares acquired upon exercise of the Option, (iii) the operation of any law or regulation providing for the imputation of interest, or (iv) the lapsing of any restriction with respect to any shares acquired upon exercise of the Option. Without limiting the foregoing, the Optionee shall have the right to satisfy, in whole or in part, the employee portion of any withholding tax obligation that may arise in connection with any exercise of the Option either by electing to have the Company withhold from the shares of Stock to be delivered upon exercise that number of shares, or by electing to deliver to the Company already-owned shares, in either case having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the amount necessary to satisfy the statutory minimum withholding amount due. The Optionee is cautioned that the Option is not exercisable unless the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group are satisfied. Accordingly, the Optionee may not be able to exercise the Option when desired even though the Option is vested, and the Company shall have no obligation to issue a certificate for such shares or release such shares from any escrow provided for herein.
 
4.5 Except in the event the Exercise Price is paid by means of a Cashless Exercise, the certificate for the shares as to which the Option is exercised shall be registered in the name of the Optionee or, if applicable, in the names of the Optionee and his/her spouse, or in the names of the heirs of the Optionee.
.
Certificate Registration
 
4.6 The grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. The Option may not be exercised if the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, the Option may not be exercised unless (i) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of exercise of the Option be in effect with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option or (ii) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. THE OPTIONEE IS CAUTIONED THAT THE OPTION MAY NOT BE EXERCISED UNLESS THE FOREGOING CONDITIONS ARE SATISFIED. ACCORDINGLY, THE OPTIONEE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXERCISE THE OPTION WHEN DESIRED EVEN THOUGH THE OPTION IS VESTED. Questions concerning this restriction should be directed to the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares subject to the Option shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Optionee to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
.
Restrictions on Grant of the Option and Issuance of Shares
 
4.7 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise of the Option.
.
Fractional Shares
 
5. The Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee or the Optionee's guardian or legal representative and may not be assigned or transferred in any manner except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Following the death of the Optionee, the Option, to the extent provided in Section 7, may be exercised by the Optionee's legal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Optionee's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
.
Nontransferability of the Option
 
6. The Option shall terminate and may no longer be exercised on the first to occur of (a) the Option Expiration Date, (b) the last date for exercising the Option following termination of the Optionee's Service as described in Section 7, or (c) a Change in Control to the extent provided in the Change-in-Control Agreement.
.
Termination of the Option
 
7. .
Effect of Termination of Service
 
7.1
Vesting Upon Termination of Service Under Certain Circumstances
 
(a) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated because of the Disability or death of the Optionee, the Option shall become, upon such termination of Service, vested and exercisable with respect to the number of Option Shares for which the Option would have been vested and exercisable had the Optionee's Service continued for an additional twelve (12) months. For purposes of this Section 7.1(a), the Optionee's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Optionee dies within three (3) months after the Optionee's termination of Service other than upon a termination for "Cause" and if the result is more favorable to the Optionee, with respect to vesting, than it would otherwise be.
Death or Disability.
 
(b) . If the Optionee's employment under the Employment Agreement is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by the Optionee with Good Reason, the Option shall become, upon such termination of employment, vested and exercisable with respect to the number of Option Shares for which the Option would have been vested and exercisable had the Optionee's employment continued for an additional eighteen (18) months.
Termination Without Cause or With Good Reason
 
7.2
Option Exercisability
 
(a) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated because of the Disability of the Optionee, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated (after giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1), may be exercised by the Optionee (or the Optionee's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Disability.
 
(b) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated because of the death of the Optionee, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated (after giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1), may be exercised by the Optionee's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Optionee's death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. For purposes of this Section 7.2(b) the Optionee's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Optionee dies within three (3) months after the Optionee's termination of Service other than upon a termination for "Cause" and if the result is more favorable to the Optionee, with respect to exercisability, than it would otherwise be.
Death.
 
(c) If the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated voluntarily by the Optionee without Good Reason (excluding for this purpose any termination due to Disability or death), the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Optionee on the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Optionee at any time within three (3) months (or such other longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion) after the date on which the Optionee's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. If the Optionee's employment under the Employment Agreement is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by the Optionee with Good Reason, the Option to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Optionee on the date on which the Optionee's employment terminated (after giving effect to the provisions of Section 7.1), may be exercised by the Optionee at any time within twelve (12) months (or such other longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion) after the date on which the Optionee's employment terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
7.3 Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of the Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.2 is prevented by the provisions of Section 4.6, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date the Optionee is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
 
7.5 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Option Agreement, if the Optionee's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated for Cause, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable on the effective date of such termination of Service.
.
Termination for Cause
 
8. This Option shall also become vested in the circumstances, and to the extent, provided in the Change-in-Control Agreement. Upon such vesting the Option shall continue to be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan.
.
Effect of Change in Control on Options
 
9. In the event of any stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, combination, reclassification, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number, Exercise Price and class of shares of stock subject to the Option. If a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to the Option are exchanged for, converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the ""), the Board may unilaterally amend the Option to provide that the Option is exercisable for New Shares. In the event of any such amendment, the Number of Option Shares and the Exercise Price shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner, as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 9 shall be rounded up or down to the nearest whole number, as determined by the Board, and in no event may the Exercise Price be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Option. The adjustments determined by the Board pursuant to this Section 9 shall be final, binding and conclusive.
.
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure
New Shares
 
10. The Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Option until the date of the issuance of a certificate for, or other valid delivery of, the shares for which the Option has been exercised (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 9. If the Optionee is an Employee, the Optionee understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in the Employment Agreement, the Optionee's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Option Agreement shall confer upon the Optionee, whether an Employee or Consultant, any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Optionee's Service as an Employee or Consultant, as the case may be, at any time.
.
Rights as a Stockholder, Employee or Consultant
 
11. The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock subject to the provisions of this Option Agreement. The Optionee shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the possession of the Optionee in order to carry out the provisions of this Section.
.
Legends
 
12. Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this Option Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. In the event of the Optionee's death or a judicial determination of his incapacity, references to "the Optionee" in this Agreement shall be deemed, as appropriate, to be references to his heirs, estate or other legal representative(s).
.
Binding Effect
 
13. The Board may terminate or amend the Plan or the Option at any time; provided, however, that no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Option or any unexercised portion hereof without the consent of the Optionee unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Option Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
.
Termination or Amendment
 
14. Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in the manner set forth in the Employment Agreement.
.
Notices
 
15. This Option Agreement, the Notice of Grant, the Plan, the Employment Agreement, together with its Exhibits and other documents referenced in the Employment Agreement, and the Change-in-Control Agreement constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Optionee and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein or therein, and there are no agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Optionee and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter other than those as set forth or provided for herein or therein. To the extent contemplated herein or therein, the provisions of this Option Agreement shall survive any exercise of the Option and shall remain in full force and effect. In the event of any conflict between this Option Agreement and the Notice of Grant, this Option Agreement shall control, and in the event of any conflict between the Employment Agreement and this Option Agreement or the Notice of Grant the Employment Agreement shall control.
.
Integrated Agreement
 
16. This Option Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
.
Applicable Law
 
17. Optionee represents that Optionee is familiar with the terms and provisions of this Option Agreement, including the Notice of Grant, and hereby accepts the Option subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof. The Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any questions arising under this Option Agreement. Without limitation of the foregoing, Optionee agrees that by executing the Notice of Grant Optionee acknowledges and agrees that:
.
Acceptance and Acknowledgement by Optionee
 
17.1 . Optionee has been provided with a copy or electronic access to a copy of the Prospectus for the Plan;
Prospectus
 
17.2 . The Plan is discretionary in nature, and the Company may amend, cancel or terminate the Plan in its sole discretion at any time, subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable limitations imposed by law. The grant of stock options under the Plan is a one-time benefit and does not create any contractual or other right to receive a grant of stock options or benefits in lieu of stock options in the future. Future grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company, including, but not limited to, the timing of any grant, the number of options, vesting provisions and the exercise price;
Discretionary Nature of Plan
 
17.3 . Participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of an Option is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of any employment contract. As such, an Option is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. The future value of the underlying Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and
Voluntary Participation
 
17.4 . Optionee acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise agreed upon in writing between Optionee and the Company, Optionee will have no entitlement to compensation or damages in consequence of the termination of Optionee's employment with the Company or any subsidiary for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of contract, insofar as such entitlement arises or may arise from ceasing to have rights under or from ceasing to be entitled to exercise stock options (provided that any such cessation is in accordance with the Plan) as a result of such termination or from the loss or diminution in value of this Option, and, upon the grant of this Option, Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any such entitlement.
Exclusion of Claims
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
David F. Hoffmeister (the ) has been granted an award (the ) pursuant to the Invitrogen Corporation 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the ) consisting of one or more rights (each such right being hereinafter referred to as a ) to receive in settlement of each such right one (1) share of Stock of Invitrogen Corporation, as adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 9 of the attached Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, as follows:
"
Participant
"
"
Award
"
"
Plan
"
"
Restricted Stock Unit
"
 
 
By their signatures below, the Company and the Participant agree that the Award is governed by this Notice and by the provisions of the Plan, the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, the Employment Agreement between them dated October 13, 2004, and the Election Form. The Participant acknowledges receipt of copies of the Plan, Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, and the Employment Agreement, represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with their provisions, and hereby accepts the Award subject to all of their terms and conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "Company") has granted to the individual (the "") named in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (the "") to which this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "") is attached an award (the "") of Restricted Stock Units upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Notice and this Agreement. The Award has been granted pursuant to and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the Invitrogen Corporation 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), as amended to the Date of Grant, and the Employment Agreement (as defined below). By signing the Notice, the Participant: (a) represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with the terms and conditions of the Notice, the Plan, the Employment Agreement and this Agreement, (b) accepts the Award subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Notice, the Plan, the Employment Agreement and this Agreement, (c) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any questions arising under the Notice, the Plan or this Agreement, and (d) acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Notice, the Plan and this Agreement.
Participant
Notice
Agreement
Award
Plan
 
1.
.
D C
EFINITIONS
AND
ONSTRUCTION
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Notice or the Plan.
Definitions.
 
(a) "" means the Employment Date, as defined in the Employment Agreement.
Date of Grant
 
(b) "" means a total of 50,000 restricted stock units granted to the Participant pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Award
 
(c) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company. If one or more Committees have been appointed by the Board to administer this Agreement, "" also means such Committee(s).
Board
Board
 
(d) "" shall mean "Cause" as defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
Cause
 
(e) "" means the Change-in-Control Agreement entered into between the Company and the Participant dated as of October 13, 2004, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Change-in-Control Agreement
 
(f) "" means that certain employment agreement entered into by and between the Company and the Participant dated as of October 13, 2004, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Employment Agreement
 
(g) "" shall mean "Good Reason" as defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
Good Reason
 
(h) "" shall mean that the Participant is "Disabled" as defined in, and determined under, the Employment Agreement.
Disability
 
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
2.
.
A
DMINISTRATION
 
All questions of interpretation concerning this Agreement shall be determined by the Board. All good faith determinations by the Board that are consistent with this Agreement, the Employment Agreement, and the Change-in-Control Agreement shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Award. Any officer of the Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
 
3.
.
S A
ETTLEMENT
OF
THE
WARD
 
3.1 The Participant shall not be required to make any additional monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) upon settlement of the Award. Payment of the aggregate purchase price of the shares of Stock for which the Award is being settled shall be made in the form of past services rendered by the Participant to the Company or for its benefit which the Board, by resolution, determines to have a value not less than the aggregate purchase price of such shares of Stock.
No Additional Payment Required.
 
3.2 Subject to the provisions of Section 3.5 below, the Company shall issue to the Participant promptly following the Settlement Date (as defined in the Notice) a number of whole shares of Stock, and any other property, corresponding to the Number of Restricted Stock Units (as defined in the Notice) for which this Award is vested as of the Settlement Date, with the number of securities in each instance rounded down to the nearest whole number. Any shares of Stock shall not be subject to any restriction on transfer other than any such restriction as may be required pursuant to Section 3.5. On, or promptly following, the Settlement Date, the Company shall pay to the Participant cash in lieu of any fractional security represented by a fractional Restricted Stock Unit subject to this Award in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on the Settlement Date of such fractional security. This Award, once vested, shall be wholly non-forfeitable.
Issuance of Shares of Stock.
 
3.3 The Participant hereby authorizes withholding from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Participant, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for, any sums required to satisfy the employee portion of any federal, state, local and
Tax Withholding.
 
foreign tax withholding obligations of the Company, if any, which arise in connection with the Award or the issuance of shares of Stock in settlement thereof. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock until the employee portion of any tax withholding obligations of the Company have been satisfied by the Participant.
 
3.4 Any certificate for shares as to which the Award is settled shall be registered in the name of the Participant, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Participant.
Certificate Registration.
 
3.5 The grant of the Award and issuance of shares of Stock upon settlement of the Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. No shares of Stock may be issued hereunder if the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares subject to the Award shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the settlement of the Award, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
Restrictions on Grant of the Award and Issuance of Shares.
 
3.6 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the settlement of the Award.
Fractional Shares.
 
4.
.
V C
ESTING
ONDITIONS
 
4.1 . One hundred percent (100%) of the Shares granted under this Award shall vest, on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant, provided that the Participant's Service to the Participating Company Group has not terminated prior to such date. Except as provided in Section 4.2 and Section 8, no additional Shares will become vested following the Participant's termination of Service for any reason.
Vesting Schedule
 
4.2 .
Acceleration of Vesting
 
(a) . If the Participant's Service with the Participating Company Group is terminated because of the Disability or death of the Participant, a number of the Shares granted under this Award shall vest, upon such termination of Service, equal to the number of Shares that would have become vested had the Participant's Service continued for an additional twelve (12) months. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant's termination of Service other than upon a termination for "Cause" and if the result, with respect to vesting, is more favorable to the Participant.
Death or Disability
 
(b) . If the Participant's employment under the Employment Agreement is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by the Participant with Good Reason, a number of the Shares granted under this Award shall vest, upon such termination of employment, equal to the number of Shares that would have become vested had the Participant's employment continued for an additional eighteen (18) months.
Termination Without Cause or With Good Reason
 
5.
.
D E R
IVIDEND
QUIVALENT
IGHTS
 
Effective on the date of payment of cash dividends on the Stock occurring on and after the Date of Grant and before the Settlement Date, the Number of Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award shall be increased by such additional whole and/or fractional Restricted Stock Units determined by the following formula:
 
    X = (A x B) / C
 
where,
 
"X" is the number of whole and/or fractional Restricted Stock Units to be credited with respect to the Award;
 
"A" is the amount of cash dividends paid on one share of Stock;
 
"B" is the number of whole and fractional Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award as of the cash dividend record date but immediately prior to the application of this Section; and
 
"C" is the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the cash dividend payment date.
 
Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to this Award.
 
6.
.
N A
ONTRANSFERABILITY
OF
THE
WARD
 
Prior the Settlement Date, neither this Award nor any Restricted Stock Unit subject to this Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
7.
.
E T S
FFECT
OF
ERMINATION
OF
ERVICE
 
If the Participant's Service with the Company terminates for any reason, the Award, if not earlier settled, and to the extent vested as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service, shall be settled as provided in Section 3.
 
8.
.
C C
HANGE
IN
ONTROL
 
This Award shall also become vested in the circumstances, and to the extent, provided in the Change-in-Control Agreement. Upon such vesting the Award shall continue to be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
9.
.
A C C S
DJUSTMENTS
FOR
HANGES
IN
APITAL
TRUCTURE
 
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate and proportionate adjustments shall be made in the number and class of shares subject to the Award, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights under the Award. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 9 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number. Such adjustments shall be determined by the Board, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
10.
.
R S, D, E C
IGHTS
AS
A
TOCKHOLDER
IRECTOR
MPLOYEE
OR
ONSULTANT
 
The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares which may be issued in settlement of this Award until the date of the issuance of a certificate for such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 9 or pursuant to the Dividend Equivalent Rights. If the Participant is an Employee, the Participant understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in the Employment Agreement, the Participant's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Participant's Service as a Director, an Employee or a Consultant, as the case may be, at any time.
 
11.
.
L
EGENDS
 
The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock issued pursuant to this Agreement. The Participant shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to this Award in the possession of the Participant in order to carry out the provisions of this Section.
 
12.
.
M P
ISCELLANEOUS
ROVISIONS
 
12.1 The parties hereto agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement.
Further Instruments.
 
12.2 Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. In the event of Participant's death or a judicial determination of his incapacity, references to "the Participant" in this Agreement shall be deemed, as appropriate, to be references to his heirs, estate or other legal representative(s).
Binding Effect.
 
12.3 The Board may terminate or amend the Plan or the Award at any time; provided, however, that no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Award without the consent of the Participant unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
Termination or Amendment.
 
12.4 Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in the manner set forth in the Employment Agreement.
Notices.
 
12.5 The Notice, this Agreement, the Plan, the Employment Agreement, together with its Exhibits and other documents referenced in the Employment Agreement, and the Change-in-Control Agreement constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein or therein and supersede any prior agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter other than those as set forth or provided for herein or therein. To the extent contemplated herein or therein, the provisions of the Notice and the Agreement shall survive any settlement of the Award and shall remain in full force and effect. In the event of any conflict between this Agreement and the Notice, this Agreement shall control, and in the event of any conflict between the Employment Agreement and this Agreement or the Notice, the Employment Agreement shall control.
Integrated Agreement.
 
12.6 This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
Applicable Law.
 
12.7 The Notice may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Signatures delivered by facsimile shall be effective for all purposes.
Counterparts.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
This CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("the Agreement") by and between INVITROGEN CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation (the "Company"), and David F. Hoffmeister (the "Executive"), dated as of the 13th day of October 2004.
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below).
 
WHEREAS, the Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of the Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change in Control and to encourage the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in Control, and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change in Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of the Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements contained in this Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Executive and the Company hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
Certain Definitions
 
(a) The "Effective Date" shall be the first date during the "Change in Control Period" (as defined in Section l(b)) on which a Change in Control occurs; provided that the Executive is employed on that date. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated or the Executive ceases to be an officer of the Company prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of the Change in Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer.
 
(b) The "Change in Control Period" is the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the second anniversary of such date, provided, however, that commencing on the date one year after the date hereof, and on each annual anniversary of such date (such date and each annual anniversary thereof is hereinafter referred to as the "Renewal Date"), the Change in Control Period shall be automatically extended so as to terminate two years from such Renewal Date, unless at least 60 days prior to the Renewal Date the Company shall give written notice to the Executive that the Change in Control Period shall not be so extended.
2. . For the purpose of this Agreement:
Change in Control
 
(a) a "Change in Control" shall mean:
 
(i) Any acquisition or series of acquisitions, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"), , that (A) any acquisition by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, (B) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (C) any acquisition or series of acquisitions which results in any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) acquiring beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and while such a beneficial owner such individual, entity or group does not exercise the voting power of his, her or its Outstanding Company Common Stock or otherwise exercise control with respect to any matter concerning or affecting the Company and promptly sells, transfers, assigns or otherwise disposes of that number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock necessary to reduce his, her or its beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of the Outstanding Company Common Stock to below 50%, as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control; or
provided, however
 
(ii) Individuals who as of April 27, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to April 27, 2001, whose election, or nomination for election, by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of the Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) relating to the election of directors of the Company; or
 
(iii) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company, in each case, with respect to which all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation.
 
3. . The Company hereby agrees to continue the Executive in its employ, and the Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending at the end of the 24th month following the Effective Date (the "Employment Period").
Employment Period
 
4.
Terms of Employment
 
(a) .
Position and Duties
 
(i) During the Employment Period, (A) the Executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities shall not be substantially diminished from the most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than 50 miles from such location.
 
(ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company.
 
(b) .
Compensation
 
(i) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary"), which shall be paid at a monthly rate, at least equal to the highest annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) base salary paid or payable to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies in respect of the three years immediately preceding the Effective Date. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in base salary generally awarded in the ordinary course of
Base Salary
 
business to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to the Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliated companies" includes any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company.
 
(ii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary, the Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year during the Employment Period, an annual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") in cash at least equal to the higher of either (A) the average annualized (for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) Incentive Compensation Plan bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three fiscal years or lesser number of fiscal years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs, or (B) in the event the annual bonus under an Incentive Compensation Plan is paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangement, in respect of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs was based upon a formula, guaranteed amount, or plan in which the Executive participated, then such Annual Bonus shall be at least equal to the bonus which would be payable based on such formula, guaranteed amount, or plan had the Executive's participation therein and level of participation remained in effect following the Effective Date. Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the end of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless the Executive shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual Bonus.
Annual Bonus
 
(iii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus payable as hereinabove provided, the Executive shall be entitled to participate during the Employment Period in all incentive (including but not limited to long-term incentive bonus), savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with incentive opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special incentive opportunities), savings opportunities and retirement benefits opportunities, in each case, less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies for the Executive under such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans
 
(iv) . During the Employment Period, the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent generally applicable to other peer executives of the
Welfare Benefit Plans
 
Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide benefits which are less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of such plans, practices, policies and programs in effect for the Executive and/or the Executive's family at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
 
(v) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable business expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Business Expenses
 
(vi) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Fringe Benefits
 
(vii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as provided at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Office and Support Staff
 
(viii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies as in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Vacation
 
5.
Termination of Employment
 
(a) The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability (as defined below) of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period, it may give to the Executive written notice in accordance with Section 17(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's
Death or Disability.
 
duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative (such agreement as to acceptability not to be withheld unreasonably).
 
(b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period for "Cause" only in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
Cause
 
(i) For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means (A) repeated violations by the Executive of the Executive's material responsibilities and material duties under Section 4(a) of this Agreement which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive's part and which are not remedied in a reasonable period of time after receipt of written notice from the Company, (B) commission of an intentional act of fraud, embezzlement or theft by the Executive in connection with the Executive's duties or in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company or its affiliated companies, (C) violation of any law, regulation, or rule applicable to the Company's business or reputation, including, without limitation securities laws, (D) causing intentional wrongful damage to property of the Company or its affiliated companies, (E) intentionally and wrongfully disclosing secret processes or confidential information of the Company or its affiliated companies, (F) conviction of, or plea of to, a felony, which conviction or plea materially harms the business or reputation of the Company, or (G) participating, without the Company's express written consent, in the management of any business enterprise which engages in substantial and direct competition with the Company or its affiliated companies, provided that in the case of clauses (A) through (F), any such act or omission shall have been materially harmful to the Company or its affiliated companies.
nolo contendere
 
(ii) The Company may not terminate the Executive's employment for Cause under clause (C), (D), or (E) of such definition set forth above unless: (a) the Company provides the Executive with written notice of its intent to terminate the Executive's employment for Cause, including a detailed description of the specific reasons which form the basis for such consideration; (b) within thirty (30) days after the date such notice is provided, the Executive shall have a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board, with or without legal representation, at the Executive's election and at the Executive's expense, to present arguments and evidence on his own behalf to defend such act or acts, or failure to act, and, if, as determined by the Board, such act or failure to act is correctable, the Executive shall be given thirty (30) days after such meeting to correct such act or failure to act; and (c) following presentation to the Board as provided in clause (b) above or the Executive's failure to appear before the Board at a date and time specified in the notice and, following expiration of the thirty (30) day period in which to correct such acts or failures to act that the Board has determined are correctable, the Executive may be terminated for Cause only if (1) the Board, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its members (excluding the Executive and any other member of the Board reasonably believed by the Board to be involved in the events leading the Board to terminate the Executive for Cause), determines that the acts or failures to act of the Executive specified in the notice occurred and remained uncorrected, and the Executive's employment should accordingly be terminated for
 
Cause; and (2) the Board provides the Executive with a written determination setting forth in specific detail the basis of such termination of employment which are consistent with the reasons set forth in the notice.
 
(c) . The Executive's employment may be terminated during the Employment Period by the Executive for "Good Reason." For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means
Good Reason
 
(i) a substantial diminution in the Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 4(a) of this Agreement, excluding non-substantial changes in title or office, and excluding any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
 
(ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4(b) of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
 
(iii) the Company requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location other than that described in Section 4(a)(i)(B) hereof or, requiring the Executive to travel away from his or her office in the course of discharging responsibilities or duties which is significantly more frequent (in terms of either consecutive days or aggregate days in any calendar year) than was required prior to the Change in Control;
 
(iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or
 
(v) any failure by any successor to the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 16(c) of this Agreement, provided that such successor has received at least ten (10) days prior written notice from the Company or the Executive of the requirements of Section 16(c) of this Agreement.
 
For the purposes of this Section 5(c), any good faith determination of "Good Reason" made by the Executive shall be conclusive.
 
(d) . Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason shall be communicated by "Notice of Termination" to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 17(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than fifteen days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the
Notice of Termination
 
Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause, as the case may be, shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
 
(e) . "Date of Termination" means the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be; provided, however, that (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination and (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
 
6.
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
 
(a) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than the following obligations: (i) payment of the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) payment of the product of (x) the Annual Bonus and any long-term incentive bonus paid, guaranteed to be paid, or payable but for any deferral (and annualized for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or for which the Executive has been employed for less than twelve full months) to the Executive for the most recently completed fiscal year during the Employment Period, and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, (iii) payment of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together with any accrued interest thereon) and not yet paid by the Company and any accrued vacation pay not yet paid by the Company, (iv) payment of any earned or guaranteed Annual Bonus, long-term incentive bonus or other incentive compensation payments attributable to prior fiscal years to the extent not theretofore paid, and (v) payment for any substantiated business and relocation expenses incurred by the Executive to the extent not theretofore reimbursed (the amounts described in clauses (i) through (v) above are hereafter referred to as "Accrued Obligations"). All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, at the option of the Company, either (x) in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination or (y) in twelve equal consecutive monthly installments, with the first installment to be paid within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive's family shall be entitled to receive benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided generally by the Company and any of its affiliated companies to surviving families of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to family death benefits, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family as in effect on the date of the Executive's death generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Death
 
(b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive at the option of the Company, either (x) in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination or (y) in twelve equal consecutive monthly installments, with the first installment to be paid within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled peer executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as in effect at any time thereafter through the Date of Termination generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Disability
 
(c) . If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay to the Executive the Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination plus the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If the Executive terminates employment during the Employment Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive at the option of the Company, either (x) in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination, or (y) in twelve equal consecutive monthly installments, with the first installment to be paid within 30 days of the Date of Termination.
Cause
 
(d) . If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause or Disability, or the Executive shall terminate employment under this Agreement for Good Reason:
Good Reason or Termination Without Cause
 
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive the aggregate of the following amounts, such amounts to be payable by the Company in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of termination.
 
A. All Accrued Obligations; and
 
B. times the sum of the Executive's Annual Base Salary and the higher of either (i) the average annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three years or lesser number of years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the
2.0
 
Effective Date, or (ii) the targeted annual bonus payable to the Executive pursuant to the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (assuming 100% achievement of the Company performance factor and 100% achievement of the Executive's personal performance factor); and
 
C. any guaranteed or targeted medium-term incentive bonus that would have been payable within two years of the Date of Termination; and
 
D. An amount equal to that portion, if any, of the Company's contribution to the Executive's 401(k), savings or other similar individual account plan which is not vested as of the Date of Termination (the "Unvested Company Contribution"), plus an amount which when added to the Unvested Company Contribution would be sufficient after Federal, state and local income taxes (based on the tax returns filed by the Executive most recently prior to the Date of Termination) to enable the Executive to net an amount equal to the Unvested Company Contribution; and
 
(ii) the Company shall pay the Executive up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services utilized by the Executive upon the receipt by the Company of written receipts or other appropriate documentation; and
 
(iii) for the remainder of the Employment Period, or such longer period as any plan, program, practice or policy may provide, the Company shall continue benefits at the Company's expense to the Executive and, where applicable, the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not been terminated in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs or policies of the Company and its affiliated companies generally applicable to other peer executives and their families during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families; provided, however, that if the Executive becomes employed elsewhere during the Employment Period and is thereby afforded comparable insurance and welfare benefits to those described in Section 4(b)(iv), the Company's obligation to continue providing the Executive with such benefits shall cease or be correspondingly reduced, as the case may be. For purposes of determining eligibility of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until the end of the Employment Period and to have retired on the last day of such period; and
 
(iv) All outstanding stock options, shares of restricted stock, and restricted stock units held by the Executive pursuant to any Company equity incentive plan, stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement, or restricted stock units agreement shall immediately become vested and exercisable as to all or any part of the shares covered thereby, with the Executive being able to exercise his stock options within a period of twelve months following the Date of Termination or such longer period as may be permitted under Executive's stock option agreements; and
 
(v) The Company shall make its best efforts to require the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or parent corporation thereof, as the case may be (the "Acquiring Corporation"), to either assume the Company's rights and obligations under any Company equity incentive plan, stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement, or restricted stock units agreement or substitute for outstanding options or restricted shares substantially equivalent options, restricted shares, or restricted share units of the Acquiring Corporation's stock. For this purpose, a stock option, restricted share, or restricted stock unit shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the stock option, restricted share, or restricted stock unit confers the right to receive in accordance with its terms and conditions, for each share of Company stock subject to a stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement, or restricted stock units agreement immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) to which a holder of a share of Company stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled.
 
(vi) If, in the calendar year in which occurs the Date of Termination or in the immediately preceding calendar year, the Executive had relocated the Executive's primary residence from one location (the "Point of Origin") to its location at the Date of Termination at the request of the Company, then any relocation expenses that are actually incurred in the twelve-month period immediately following the Date of Termination by the Executive in moving the Executive's primary residence and personal property to any location shall be reimbursed by the Company, to the extent such expenses do not exceed the cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin, provided such expenses are substantiated by means of written receipts. The cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin shall be determined by averaging estimates obtained by the Company in writing from three reputable moving companies, selected by the Company in good faith. It shall be the obligation of the Executive to notify the Company in advance of any such relocation so that such estimates may be obtained.
 
The amounts required to be paid under this Section 6(d) shall be reduced by any other amount of severance (i.e., relating solely to salary or bonus continuation or actual or deemed pension or insurance continuation) received by the Executive upon such termination of employment under any severance plan, policy or arrangement of the Company applicable to the Executive or a group of employees of the Company, including the Executive, and applicable without regard to the occurrence of a Change in Control prior to such termination of employment.
 
7. . Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation or benefits earned by the Executive as the result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits.
No-Mitigation
 
8. . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for
Non-exclusivity of Rights
 
which the Executive may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
 
9. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, except as provided in the last sentence of Section 6(d), shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur, including the costs and expenses of any arbitration proceeding, as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); that the Executive's claim is not determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or an arbitrator to be frivolous or otherwise entirely without merit.
Full Settlement
provided
 
10. . Upon fulfillment of the Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, the parties shall enter into a mutual release that shall include the provisions set forth in Exhibit D to the Employment Agreement between the Company and the Executive and such other terms that are agreed upon by the Company and the Executive at such time.
Release
 
11. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
 
(a). Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid, payable, distributed or distributable pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") (or any successor provision) or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to in this Agreement as the "Excise Tax"), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "GrossUp Payment") in an amount such that after the payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.
Gross-Up Payment Amount
-
 
(b). Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by an accounting firm of national standing reasonably selected by the Company (the "Accounting Firm"), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and the Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of written notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 11, shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within five business days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination and calculations. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive. As a result of the possible uncertainty in application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments will not have been made by the Company that should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 11(c) and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive.
Determinations
 
(c) . The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim or audit by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, could reasonably require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
Internal Revenue Service Claim or Audit
 
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,
 
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Executive,
 
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and
 
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and
 
expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to the Executive, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled in his sole discretion to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
 
(d) . If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of such Section) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
Refunds
 
12. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In addition, to the extent that the Executive is a party to any other agreement relating to confidential information, inventions or
Confidential Information
 
similar matters with the Company, the Executive shall continue to comply with the provisions of such agreements. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement.
 
13. . The Executive shall consult with the Company before issuing any press release or otherwise making any public statement with respect to the Company or any of its affiliated companies, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Executive shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior written approval of the Company, except as may be required by applicable law, rule or regulation or any self regulatory agency requirements, in which event the Company shall have the right to review and comment upon any such press release or public statement prior to its issuance.
Public Announcements
 
14. . This Agreement contains all of the terms agreed upon between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof and replaces and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements between the Executive and the Company with respect to the matters contemplated in this Agreement (except for any understandings or agreements reflected in a separate employment, confidentiality, invention or other similar agreement or agreements between the Company and the Executive). Without limiting the effect of the foregoing, the Executive agrees that this Agreement satisfies any rights he may have had under any prior understanding or agreement between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matters described therein. The Executive and the Company agree that no term, provision or condition of this Agreement shall be held to be altered, amended, changed or waived in any respect except as evidenced by written agreement of the Executive and the Company.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
 
15. .
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
 
(a) Except as provided in Section 15(d) below, Executive and the Company agree that to the extent permitted by law, any dispute or controversy arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, or the interpretation, validity, construction, performance, breach, or termination thereof will be settled by arbitration to be held at a location within 30 miles of the Company's principal executive offices in California, in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association (the "Rules"). The arbitrator may grant injunctions or other relief in such dispute or controversy. The decision of the arbitrator will be final, conclusive and binding on the parties to the arbitration. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's decision in any court having jurisdiction.
 
(b) The arbitrator will apply California law to the merits of any dispute or claim, without reference to rules of conflict of law. Executive hereby expressly consents to the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in California for any action or proceeding arising from or relating to this Agreement and/or relating to any arbitration in which the parties are participants.
 
(c) The Company will pay the direct costs and expenses of the arbitration. The Company and Executive each will separately pay its counsel fees and expenses; provided, however, the Company shall reimburse Executive for his reasonable costs (including without limitation attorneys' fees) incurred if Executive succeeds on the merits with respect to a material breach of this Agreement at any such arbitration, including enforcing any judgment entered on an arbitrator's decision.
 
(d) The Company may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or other interim or conservatory relief, as necessary to enforce the provisions of any other employment, incentive, compensation, stock option or other similar arrangement, without breach of this arbitration agreement and without abridgement of the powers of the arbitrator.
 
(e) Nothing contained in this Section 15 shall prevent the Executive and the Company from settling any dispute by mutual agreement at any time.
 
(f) EXECUTIVE HAS READ AND UNDERSTANDS SECTION 15, WHICH DISCUSSES ARBITRATION. EXECUTIVE UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE AGREES TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, TO SUBMIT ANY FUTURE CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE, BREACH, OR TERMINATION THEREOF TO BINDING ARBITRATION, AND THAT THIS ARBITRATION CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALL ASPECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
 
16. .
Successors
 
(a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
 
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
 
(c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
 
17.
Miscellaneous
 
(a) Unless otherwise specified, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Sate of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
 
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
 
:
If to the Executive
 
David Hoffmeister
1600 Faraday Avenue
Carlsbad, CA 92008
 
:
If to the Company
 
Invitrogen Corporation
1600 Faraday Avenue
Carlsbad, CA 92008
(ATTN: General Counsel)
 
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
 
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
 
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision hereof in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any other provision thereof.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set his or her hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
This Indemnification Agreement made and entered as of the 13th day of October 2004 ("Agreement"), by and between Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (together with any successor or successors and predecessor or predecessors thereto, the "Company") and David F. Hoffmeister ("Indemnitee").
 
WHEREAS, it is essential to the Company that it be able to retain and attract as directors, officers, employees and agents the most capable persons available;
 
WHEREAS, increased corporate litigation has subjected directors, officers, employees and agents of corporations to litigation risks and expenses and the limitations on the availability of directors and officers liability insurance have made it increasingly difficult for the Company to attract and retain such persons;
 
WHEREAS, its by-laws permit the Company to enter into indemnification arrangements and agreements;
 
WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide Indemnitee with specific contractual assurance of Indemnitee's rights to full indemnification against litigation risks and expenses (regardless, among other things, of any amendment to or revocation of the Company's by-laws or any change in the ownership of the Company or the composition of its Board of Directors), which indemnification is intended to be greater than that which is afforded by the Company's certificate of incorporation, by-laws and, to the extent insurance is available, the coverage of Indemnitee under the Company' directors and officers liability insurance policies; and
 
WHEREAS, Indemnitee is relying upon the rights afforded under this Agreement in continuing in Indemnitee's position as an agent of the Company.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
 
1. .
Definitions
 
(a) "agent" of the Company means any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or other agent of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company; or is or was serving at the request of, for the convenience of, or to represent the interests of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise; or was a director, officer, employee or agent of a foreign or domestic corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, or was a director, officer, employee or agent of another enterprise at the request of, for the convenience of, or to represent the interests of such predecessor corporation.
(b) "Corporate Status" describes the status of a person who is serving or has served (i) as an agent of the Company, (ii) in any capacity with respect to any employee benefit plan of the Company, or (iii) as a director, partner, trustee, officer, employee, or agent of any other Entity as defined below at the request of the Company.
 
(c) "Entity" shall mean any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, foundation, association, organization or other legal entity and any group or division of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
(d) "Expenses" shall mean all reasonable fee, costs and expenses incurred in connection with any Proceeding (as defined below), including, without limitation, attorney's fees, disbursements and retainers (including, without limitation, any such fees, disbursements and retainers incurred by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 12 of this Agreement), fees and disbursements of expert witnesses, private investigators and professional advisors (including, without limitation, accountants and investment bankers), court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, travel expenses, duplicating, printing and binding costs, telephone and fax transmission charges, postage, delivery services, secretarial services, and other disbursements and expenses.
 
(e) "Indemnifiable Expenses," "Indemnifiable Liabilities" and "Indemnifiable Amounts" shall have the meanings ascribed to those terms in Section 3(a) below.
 
(f) "Liabilities" shall mean judgments, damages, liabilities, losses, penalties, excise taxes, fines and amounts paid in settlement.
 
(g) "Proceeding" shall mean any threatened, pending or completed claim, action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution process, investigation, administrative hearing, appeal, or any other proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, whether formal or informal, including a proceeding initiated by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 12 of this Agreement to enforce Indemnitee's rights hereunder.
 
2. . In consideration of the Company's covenants and commitments hereunder, Indemnitee agrees to serve or continue to serve as an agent of the Company. However, this Agreement shall not impose any obligation on Indemnitee or the Company to continue Indemnitee's service to the Company beyond any period otherwise required by law or by other agreements or commitments of the parties, if any.
Services of Indemnitee
 
3. . The Company agrees to indemnify Indemnitee as follows:
Agreement to Indemnify
 
(a) Subject to the exceptions contained in Section 4(a) below, if Indemnitee was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any
 
Proceeding (other than an action by or in the right of the Company) by reason of Indemnitee's Corporate Status, Indemnitee shall be indemnified by the Company against all Expenses and Liabilities incurred or paid by Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding (referred to herein as "Indemnifiable Expenses" and "Indemnifiable Liabilities," respectively, and collectively as "Indemnifiable Amounts").
 
(b) Subject to the exceptions contained in Section 4(b) below, if Indemnitee was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of Indemnitee's Corporate Status, Indemnitee shall be indemnified by the Company against all Indemnifiable Expenses.
 
4. . Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification under Section 3(a) and 3(b) above in all circumstances other than the following:
Exceptions to Indemnification
 
(a) If indemnification is requested under Section 3(a) and it has been adjudicated finally by a court of competent jurisdiction that, in connection with the subject of the Proceeding out of which the claim for indemnification has arisen, Indemnitee failed to act in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful, Indemnitee shall not be entitled to payment of Indemnifiable Amounts hereunder.
 
(b) If indemnification is requested under Section 3(b) and
 
(i) It has been adjudicated finally by a court of competent jurisdiction that, in connection with the subject of the Proceeding out of which the claim for indemnification has arisen, Indemnitee failed to act in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, Indemnitee shall not be entitled to payment of Indemnifiable Expenses hereunder; or
 
(ii) It has been adjudicated finally by a court of competent jurisdiction that Indemnitee is liable to the Company with respect to any claim, issue or matter involved in the Proceeding out of which the claim for indemnification has arisen, including, without limitation, a claim that Indemnitee received an improper personal benefit, no Indemnifiable Expenses shall be paid with respect to such claim, issue or matter unless the Court of Chancery or another court in which such Proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability, but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such Indemnifiable Expenses which such court shall deem proper.
 
(c) The Company shall not be obligated to indemnify the Indemnitee for expenses or liabilities of any type whatsoever (including, but not limited to, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes and penalties, and amounts paid in settlement) for which payment is actually made to or on behalf of Indemnitee under a valid and collectible insurance policy of D&O Insurance, or under a valid and enforceable indemnity clause, by-law or agreement.
 
5. . Promptly after receipt by the Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of or the threat of commencement of any Proceeding, the Indemnitee shall, if the Indemnitee believes that indemnification with respect thereto may be sought from the Company under this Agreement, notify the Company of the commencement or threat of commencement thereof.
Notice Procedure
 
6. . In the event the Company shall be obligated to pay the Expenses of any Proceeding against the Indemnitee, the Company, if appropriate, shall be entitled to assume the defense of such Proceeding, with counsel approved by the Indemnitee, upon the delivery to the Indemnitee of written notice of its election so to do. After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by the Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Company will not be liable to the Indemnitee under this Agreement for any fees of counsel subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee with respect to the same Proceeding, provided that (i) the Indemnitee shall have the right to employ his counsel in any such Proceeding at the Indemnitee's expense; and (ii) if (A) the employment of counsel by the Indemnitee has been previously authorized by the Company, (B) the Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest between the Company and the Indemnitee in the conduct of any such defense, or (C) the Company shall not, in fact, have employed counsel to assume the defense of such Proceeding, then the fees and expenses of Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the expense of the Company.
Procedure for Company to Assume the Defense
 
7. . Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request specifying the Indemnifiable Amounts for which Indemnitee seeks payment under Section 3 of this Agreement and the basis for the claim. The Company shall pay such Indemnifiable Amounts to Indemnitee within twenty (20) calendar days of receipt of the request. At the request of the Company, Indemnitee shall furnish such documentation and information as are reasonably available to Indemnitee and necessary to establish that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification hereunder.
Procedure for Payment of Indemnifiable Amounts
 
8. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, and without limiting any such provision, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of Indemnitee's Corporate Status, a party to and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection therewith. If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection with each successfully resolved claim,
Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful
 
issue or matter. For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.
 
9. . Neither the settlement or termination of any Proceeding nor the failure of the Company to award indemnification or to determine that indemnification is payable shall create an adverse presumption that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification hereunder. In addition, the termination of any proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that Indemnitee's action was unlawful.
Effect of Certain Resolutions
 
10. . The Company shall pay to Indemnitee all Indemnifiable Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding, including a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company, in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding, if Indemnitee furnishes the Company with a written undertaking to repay the amount of such Indemnifiable Expenses advanced to Indemnitee if it is finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that Indemnitee is not entitled under this Agreement to indemnification with respect to such Expenses. Such undertaking shall be an unlimited general obligation of Indemnitee, shall be accepted by the Company without regard to the financial ability of Indemnitee to make repayment, and in no event shall be required to be secured.
Agreement to Advance Interim Expenses; Conditions
 
11. . Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request specifying the Indemnifiable Expenses for which Indemnitee seeks an advancement under Section 10 of this Agreement, together with documentation evidencing that Indemnitee has incurred such Indemnifiable Expenses. Payment of Indemnifiable Expenses under Section 10 shall be made no later than twenty (20) calendar days after the Company's receipt of such request and the undertaking required by Section 10.
Procedure for Payment of Interim Expenses
 
12. .
Remedies of Indemnitee
 
(a) . In the event that Indemnitee makes a request for payment of Indemnifiable Amounts under Sections 3 and 7 above or a request for an advancement of Indemnifiable Expenses under Sections 10 and 11 above and the Company fails to make such payment or advancement in a timely manner pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, Indemnitee may petition the appropriate judicial authority to enforce the Company's obligations under this Agreement.
Right to Petition Court
 
(b) . In any judicial proceeding brought under Section 12(a) above, the Company shall have the burden of proving that Indemnitee is not entitled to payment of Indemnifiable Amounts hereunder.
Burden of Proof
 
(c) . The Company agrees to reimburse Indemnitee in full for any Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with investigating, preparing for, litigating, defending or settling any action brought by Indemnitee under Section 12(a) above, or in connection with any claim or counterclaim brought by the Company in connection therewith.
Expenses
 
(d) . The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any Proceeding, including, without limitation, an action under Section 12(a) above, that the provisions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable or that there is insufficient consideration for this Agreement and shall stipulate in court that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.
Validity of Agreement
 
(e) . The failure of the Company (including its Board of Directors or any committee thereof, independent legal counsel, or stockholders) to make a determination concerning the permissibility of the payment of Indemnifiable Amounts or the advancement of Indemnifiable Expenses under this Agreement shall not be a defense in any action brought under Section 12(a) above, and shall not create a presumption that such payment or advancement is not permissible.
Failure to Act Not a Defense
 
13. . The Company hereby represents and warrants to Indemnitee as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
(a) . The Company has all necessary power and authority to enter into, and be bound by the terms of, this Agreement, and the execution, delivery and performance of the undertakings contemplated by this Agreement have been duly authorized by the Company.
Authority
 
(b) . This Agreement, when executed and delivered by the Company in accordance with the provisions hereof, shall be a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
Enforceability
 
14. . The Company hereby covenants and agrees that, so long as Indemnitee shall continue to serve as an agent of the Company and thereafter so long as the Indemnitee shall be subject to any possible proceeding by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee was an agent of the Company, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and maintain a policy or policies of insurance with reputable insurance companies providing the Indemnitee with coverage for losses from wrongful acts, and to ensure the Company's performance of its indemnification obligations under this Agreement. In all policies of director and officer liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be named as an insured in such a manner as to provide Indemnitee at least the same rights and benefits as are accorded to the most favorably insured of the Company's directors if Indemnitee is a director; or of the Company's
Insurance
 
officers, if the Indemnitee is not a director of the Company but is an officer; or of the Company's key employees, if the Indemnitee is not a director or officer but is a key employee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company, after employing commercially reasonable efforts as provided in this section, determines in good faith that such insurance is not reasonably available, if the premium costs for such insurance are disproportionate to the amount of coverage provided, or if the coverage provided by such insurance is limited by exclusions so as to provide an insufficient benefit the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and maintain a policy or policies of insurance with coverage having features as similar as practicable to those described above.
 
15. . The rights to payment of Indemnifiable Amounts and advancement of Indemnifiable Expenses provided by this Agreement shall be in addition to, but not exclusive of, any other rights which Indemnitee may have at any time under applicable law, the Company's by-laws or certificate of incorporation, or any other agreement, vote of stockholders or directors, or otherwise, both as to action in Indemnitee's official capacity and as to action in any other capacity as a result of Indemnitee's serving as a director, officer or agent of the Company.
Contract Rights Not Exclusive
 
16. . This Agreement shall be (a) binding upon all successors and assigns of the Company (including any transferee of all or a substantial portion of the business, stock and/or assets of the Company and any direct or indirect successor by merger or consolidation or otherwise by operation of law) and (b) binding on and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, personal representatives, executors and administrators of Indemnitee. This Agreement shall continue for the benefit of Indemnitee and such heirs, personal representatives, executors and administrators after Indemnitee has ceased to have Corporate Status.
Successors
 
17. . In the event of any payment of Indemnifiable Amounts under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of contribution or recovery of Indemnitee against other persons, and Indemnitee shall take, at the request of the Company, all reasonable action necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation
 
18. . To the extent that a change in applicable law (whether by statute or judicial decision) shall permit broader indemnification than is provided under the terms of the by-laws of the Company and this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to such broader indemnification and this Agreement shall be deemed to be amended to such extent.
Change in Law
 
19. . It is understood that the parties hereto intend this Agreement to be interpreted and enforced so as to provide indemnification to the Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law, including those circumstances in which indemnification would otherwise be discretionary.
Interpretation of Agreement
 
20. . Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement, or any clause thereof, shall be determined by a court of competent
Severability
 
jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, such provision or clause shall be limited or modified in its application to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision or clause valid, legal and enforceable, and the remaining provisions and clauses of this Agreement shall remain fully enforceable and binding on the parties.
 
21. . Except as provided in Section 12((c)) of this Agreement and in this Section 21, Indemnitee shall not be entitled to payment of Indemnifiable Amounts or advancement of Indemnifiable Expenses with respect to any Proceeding brought by Indemnitee against the Company, any Entity which it controls, any director, officer or agent thereof, or any third party. This Section shall not apply (i) to counterclaims or affirmative defenses asserted by Indemnitee in an action brought against Indemnitee, (ii) if the Company has consented to the initiation of such Proceeding, (iii) if such indemnification is expressly regarded to be made by law or (iv) if such indemnification is provided by the Company, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the Company under the General Corporation Laws of Delaware. In addition to the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to indemnify the Indemnitee (i) for any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee with respect to any proceeding instituted by the Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that each of the material assertions made by the Indemnitee in such proceeding was not made by good faith or was frivolous; or (ii) under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of a proceeding unless the Company consents to such settlement, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Indemnitee as Plaintiff
 
22. . Except as provided in Section 18 above with respect to changes in applicable law which broaden the right of Indemnitee to be indemnified by the Company, no supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by each of the parties hereto. No waiver or any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions of this Agreement (whether or not similar), nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Modifications and Waiver
 
23. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (a) when delivered by hand, (b) when transmitted by facsimile and receipt is acknowledged, or (c) if mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is so mailed:
General Notices
 
(i) If to Indemnitee, to:
 
David F. Hoffmeister
1600 Faraday Avenue
Carlsbad, CA 92008
 
(ii) If to the Company, to
 
General Counsel
Invitrogen Corporation
1600 Faraday Avenue
Carlsbad, CA 92008
 
or to such other address as may have been furnished in the same manner by any party to the others.
 
24. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced under the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the provisions thereof relating to conflicts of law.
Governing Law
 
25. . The Company hereby irrevocably and unconditionally consents to the jurisdiction of the courts of Delaware and the United States District Court in Delaware. The Company hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any Proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in the courts of Delaware or the United States District Court in Delaware, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim that any such Proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Consent to Jurisdiction
 
26. . This Agreement is to be deemed consistent wherever possible with relevant provisions of the Company's by-laws and certificate of incorporation; however, in the event of a conflict between this Agreement and such provisions, the provisions of this Agreement shall control.
Agreement Governs
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 


