FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20040721075833.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(a) Not applicable.
 
(b) Not applicable.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On Jul 21, 2004, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
 
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investor and Financial Contacts:
 
Adam S. Taich
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7200
 
 
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. Revenues for the second quarter were $254.0 million, an increase of 32% over the $192.4 million reported for the second quarter of 2003. Net income for the second quarter was $19.7 million versus $16.9 million for the same quarter in 2003. Earnings per share for the second quarter of 2004 were $0.36 per share, as compared to $0.34 per share reported in the second quarter of 2003. The second quarter of 2004 included higher costs related to acquisitions, including inventory step-up and intangible amortization.
CARLSBAD, CA, July 21, 2004
 
Revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2004, were $505.3 million, an increase of 35% over the $373.0 million reported for the first half of 2003. Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2004, was $30.2 million versus $33.8 million for the comparable period in 2003.
 
The Company has regularly reported pro forma results which exclude acquisition related amortization and other similar costs. Second quarter pro forma net income was $42.2 million, or $0.74 per share, compared with pro forma net income in the second quarter of 2003 of $29.4 million, or $0.56 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 43% and 32%, respectively. Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and pro forma results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables with information also presented on the Company's Investor Relations web page at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast Today at 8:30 am Eastern
 
The Company will discuss its second quarter 2004 results on its conference call at 8:30 am Eastern Time today. Additional details regarding the call and webcast are included later in this release.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 2
 
Second Quarter Review
 
Greg Lucier, Invitrogen's Chairman and CEO, commented: "During the second quarter, we saw an increasingly competitive business environment. We continue to focus on new product introductions and enhanced selling effectiveness in an effort to stimulate revenue growth in both of our reporting segments. We were very focused on costs during the second quarter and were able to deliver solid increases in earnings and cash flows. This cash flow, along with our current cash balance, will be deployed thoughtfully to increase shareholder value. The cash flow generating ability of this Company is strong, and we'll continue to concentrate our efforts on accelerating both cash flow and revenue growth."
 
Second quarter revenue growth of 32% included 3% from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenue growth of 19% in BioDiscovery was principally due to the acquisition of Molecular Probes. BioProduction revenues increased approximately 53% in the second quarter principally related to the acquisition of BioReliance and solid customer demand for our cell culture products.
 
Revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2004, grew 35%, of which 5% resulted from favorable foreign currency exchange rates. For the same period, BioProduction revenues increased 53% reflecting the acquisition of BioReliance and increases for both research and production applications. Sales of BioDiscovery products increased 25% for the six months ended June 30, 2004 versus the same period in 2003. The increase is due primarily to the acquisition of Molecular Probes.
 
Second quarter 2004 gross margin was 58%, compared with 62% in the second quarter of 2003. Second quarter 2004 gross margin included approximately $7.3 million in increased costs for inventories acquired with Molecular Probes, which were recorded at fair value under purchase accounting rules. BioDiscovery gross margin increased to 70% in the second quarter of 2004 from 69% last year as product mix has migrated toward higher value product offerings. BioProduction gross margin decreased to 48% from 52% in the comparable quarter of 2003, and reflects the lower gross margins associated with the BioReliance business and the higher cost sera inventory purchased in the last year.
 
Operating income was 12% of revenues in the second quarter of 2004 versus 13% in the second quarter of 2003. The decline in operating margin was due to acquisition related amortization costs. Operating income before acquisition related amortization and other similar costs was 26% of revenues in the second quarter of 2004 compared with 24% in the second quarter of 2003. The operating margins improved as a result of leveraging our operating expenses over a larger revenue base.
 
Cash flows from operating activities were $60.5 million in the second quarter of 2004 and $90.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2004. Capital expenditures were $4.4 million during the second quarter of 2004 and $11.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2004.
 
2004 Outlook
 
The Company reaffirms its earnings guidance for the year on slightly lower revenue projections. The Company projects that revenue growth for 2004 will be 30-32%. For the second half of the year, the Company expects quarterly revenues to range from $255 million to $260 million. Pro forma earnings per share is expected to range from $0.74 to $0.76 for each of the remaining quarters of 2004. The Company will provide further detail on its business outlook on the conference call today.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 3
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
The Company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 8:30 am Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
 
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (888) 396-2298 (domestic) or (617) 847-8708 (international) and use passcode 12329017. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and (617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 78365714.
 
About Invitrogen
 
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company globally employs approximately 3,900 scientists and other professionals. For more information about Invitrogen, visit the company's web site at www.invitrogen.com.
 
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding acquisition related amortization and other similar costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 4
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented on the following pages.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and pro forma earnings per share; 2) momentum in 2004; 3) ability to make improvements to operational efficiency; and 4) integration of acquired businesses; and 5) ability to combine technologies of acquired businesses. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology, new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 5
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 6
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 7
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 8
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 9
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 10
 
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2004 Results
Page 11
 
 
 


