FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20050217163105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On February 17, 2005, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the year ended December 31, 2004. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
 
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business.
 
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investor and Financial Contacts:
 
Adam S. Taich
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 
 
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its fourth quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2004. Revenues for the fourth quarter were $262.2 million, an increase of 26% over the $207.8 million reported for the fourth quarter of 2003. Net income for the fourth quarter was $30.5 million versus $12.6 million for the same quarter in 2003, an increase of 142%. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2004 increased 129% to $0.55 per share, as compared to $0.24 per share reported in the fourth quarter of 2003.
CARLSBAD, CA, February 17, 2005
 
Revenues for the full-year 2004 were $1,023.9 million, an increase of 32% over the $777.7 million reported for 2003. Net income for the year increased 48% to $88.8 million versus $60.1 million for 2003. Earnings per share for 2004 were $1.63, which compares to $1.17 per share in 2003, an increase of 39%.
 
Invitrogen has regularly reported pro forma results which exclude acquisition related amortization and other costs. Fourth quarter pro forma net income was $45.2 million, or $0.80 per share, compared with pro forma net income in the fourth quarter of 2003 of $31.7 million, or $0.57 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 42% and 40%, respectively. For the full year, pro forma net income was $166.1 million, or $2.91 per share, compared with pro forma net income in 2003 of $119.3 million, or $2.22 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 39% and 31%, respectively, for the full year.
 
Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and pro forma results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables with information also presented on the Company's Investor Relations web page at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
Performance Highlights
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast Today at 5:00 PM Eastern
 
The Company will discuss its fourth quarter and full-year 2004 results, as well as 2005 guidance on its conference call at 5 pm Eastern Time today. Additional details regarding the call and webcast are included later in this release.
 
Fourth Quarter Review
 
Greg Lucier, Invitrogen's Chairman and CEO, commented: "We are pleased with the Company's performance during the fourth quarter and for the full-year. Our BioDiscovery segment had a strong quarter with solid organic growth of 3%. The acceleration we are seeing in this business segment is a direct result of more effective selling and the successful launches of innovative new products. Our BioProduction segment had a very solid quarter with organic growth of 13%, driven by tremendous growth in our business tied to production of biologics. 2004 was a year of great change within Invitrogen, and I am confident that we're a stronger and more inventive company than we were 12 months ago. We're enthusiastic about 2005 and are confident in our abilities to continue to deliver value to our customers and shareholders."
 
Fourth quarter revenue growth of 26% included approximately 4% from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenue growth of 7% in BioDiscovery was driven by organic growth of 3% and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. BioProduction revenues increased approximately 65% in the fourth quarter principally related to the acquired BioReliance business and continuing demand for cell culture products. Excluding the effects of currency and the acquisition of BioReliance, organic growth in BioProduction was 13% for the quarter.
 
Revenues for the full-year 2004 grew 32%, of which 5% resulted from favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Sales of BioDiscovery products increased 18% for the full-year 2004 versus 2003. For the same period, BioProduction revenues increased 56%. Excluding the effects of currency and acquisitions, organic growth for BioDiscovery and BioProduction was 2% and 11%, respectively for the year.
 
Fourth quarter 2004 gross margin was 62%, compared to 58% in the fourth quarter of 2003. BioDiscovery gross margin increased to 70% in the fourth quarter of 2004 from 69% last year as product mix has migrated toward higher value, proprietary product offerings. BioProduction gross margin increased to 51% from 50% in the comparable quarter of 2003, as a result of a migration toward higher value cell culture products.
 
Operating income was 16% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004 versus 9% in the fourth quarter of 2003. Operating income before acquisition related amortization and other costs was 25% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004 versus 24% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Cash flows from operating activities were $83.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2004 and $252.7 million for the full-year 2004. Capital expenditures were $19.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2004 and $39.1 million for the full-year 2004. Free cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $64.0 million for the fourth quarter and $213.6 million for the year.
 
The impact of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 04-8, "The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share," on our pro forma earnings per share was $0.01 for the fourth quarter and $0.04 for the year.
2005 Outlook
 
Guidance is unchanged since the update given during the Dynal acquisition conference call. The Company projects that revenue for fiscal 2005 will be in a range of approximately $1,164 million to $1,184 million. Pro forma earnings per share are expected to range from $3.40 to $3.44. The Company will provide further detail on its business outlook on the conference call today.
 
Zymed Laboratories, Inc.
 
The previously announced Zymed Laboratories, Inc. acquisition closed on February 14, 2005. Zymed is a leading supplier of antibodies, which are a key component in Invitrogen's comprehensive product portfolio of matched reagents for drug discovery and medical research.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
The Company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 5 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
 
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (888) 396-2298 (domestic) or (617) 847-8708 (international) and use passcode 12329017. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and (617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 50453881.
 
About Invitrogen
 
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company globally employs approximately 4,000 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of more than $1 billion in 2004. For more information about Invitrogen, visit the company's web site at www.invitrogen.com.
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding acquisition related amortization and other similar costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented on the following pages.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and pro forma earnings per share; 2) momentum in 2004; 3) ability to generate new products that will accelerate scientific research and our future growth; 4) integration of acquired businesses; and 5) ability to combine technologies of acquired businesses. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology, new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


