FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20050131154740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1 - Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
In compliance with a Securities and Exchange Commission Frequently Asked Questions Bulletin on Form 8-K issued November 23, 2004, the Company is disclosing the following items which the Securities and Exchange Commission may deem to be material definitive agreement.
 
. On November 30, 2004 at a meeting of the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") the Committee approved the terms of the Company's 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2005 Incentive Plan"). The 2005 Incentive Plan is intended to provide incentives to all regular part-time and full-time employees, including the Company's executive officers, who are not participants in any Company sales incentive plan, in the form of cash bonus payments for achieving certain performance goals established under the 2005 Incentive Plan. The design of the Company's 2005 Incentive Plan is substantially similar to the Company's 2004 and other prior year incentive plans, and all such plans reward achievement at specified levels of financial and individual performance.
Annual Incentive Plans
 
Under the 2005 Incentive Plan, just as the Company had done under the 2004 predecessor plan, each eligible participant, based on such participant's career band, has an assigned target bonus level, expressed as a percent of base salary. Depending on corporate and financial performance and individual performance, each eligible participant may earn between 0 and two times the target bonus. The two main components of each years incentive plan include a corporate financial component and an individual team component.
 
 
 
The Committee's approval of the terms of the 2005 Incentive Plan shall not be deemed to create an enforceable agreement between the Company and any eligible participant, and the Committee retains discretion to make changes in the plan design and plan participation at any time without prior notice to any eligible participant. No rights to any cash awards shall be deemed to exist unless and until the Committee or, with respect to non-executive officers, the Company, authorizes payment of any awards under the 2005 Incentive Plan following the completion of any fiscal year measurement periods and only after each eligible participant has satisfied the 2005 Incentive Plan's applicable participation requirements.
 
. In January 2004, the Company adopted its Mid-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "MTIP"). The MTIP is intended to provide incentives to members of the Company's upper management, including the Company's executive officers, in the form of a 50% cash award and a 50% restricted stock unit award for achieving certain performance goals. Incentive awards are based upon achievement of a three-year strategic plan that the Company created in 2004. The effective annual award under the MTIP is equal to 16.67% of each eligible participant's base salary.
Mid-Term Compensation Plan
 
The current MTIP performance period is from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006. Awards under MTIP, if any, will be paid out in early 2007, based on a sliding scale beginning with a minimum threshold performance, target performance and maximum amount. The total award is weighted 50% on three-year average revenue growth and 50% on achievement of cumulative free-cash-flow-return-on-average-capital-employed (i.e., cumulative free cash flow divided by weighted average equity plus debt).
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Not applicable.
 
(b) Not applicable.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
The Incentive Compensation Plan ("ICP") provides for cash bonuses to be paid to eligible employees and is designed to meet the following objectives:
Objectives:
 
 
 
 
 
Eligibility for Participation:
 
All regular part-time and full-time employees who are not participants in another incentive plan (i.e.: Sales Commissions) are eligible to participate in the ICP. Eligible employees begin participation in the plan on their date of hire or on the date they transfer to an eligible position. For example, a Sales employee who transfers to a non-sales position would be eligible to participate in the ICP on a prorata basis on the date of their transfer.
 
Plan Year:
 
The Plan year is from January 1 through December 31 of each calendar year.
 
Eligibility for Distribution:
 
An employee must meet all of the following criteria in order to be eligible to receive the ICP bonus payment, if any payment made:
 
 
 
 
 
There are two main components to the ICP: (1) Corporate Financial component and (2) Individual / Team component.
Plan Components:
 
Each Plan Component contains specific measures as follows:
Plan Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2005 ICP Financial Targets
 
The Corporate Financial measure is a sliding target based on actual results versus target. An employee may earn anywhere from 0%  100% of the Corporate Financial measure, depending on Corporate results.
 
2005 ICP Financial Targets (in thousands)*
 
 
Individual / Team Target
 
The Individual / Team measure is a sliding target. An employee may earn from 0% to 200% of the Individual / Team measure, depending on their performance as measured against the objectives set forth at the beginning of the Plan year or during the performance appraisal process.
 
An employee who has shown progress but has not fully achieved any of the Individual Objectives may be eligible for a payment of 75% to 90% on this component. To earn 100% of the Individual component, an employee must achieve the majority of the objectives established at the start of the plan year. It is assumed that most employees will achieve the majority of their objectives, however management may apply discretion in cases where circumstances prohibit that achievement. Achievement of every objective is considered to be "above target" performance, and may be eligible for payment in excess of 150%, up to a maximum of 200%. The employee's manager and Executive Leadership will determine the final ratings to be applied to this component.
 
Upside Potential:
 
Eligible employees have the opportunity to earn up to 200% of their Bonus Target. First, the calculated award is determined for each employee by assessing the performance results against the Corporate Financial goals and the Individual / Team goals.
 
Performance in excess of 100% of the Company Financial goals will fund a Super Bonus pool, which will be allocated by the Chief Executive Officer based on over-achievement of either Individual or Business Unit goals for the year.
 
Total award to any one individual is capped at 200% of target.
 
Plan Calculation and Payment Dates:
 
The ICP will be calculated and payments, if any, will be made annually, in late March.
 
The Company reserves the right to review this Incentive Compensation Plan, to make changes in plan participation, target incentives, or any other aspect of this plan at any time and without prior notice.
Plan Controls and Limitations:
 
Human Resources is responsible for administering the Plan and maintaining any necessary administrative records. The Senior Vice President of Human Resources is responsible for interpreting plan provisions in the event a dispute or question should arise.
Plan Administration:
 
 
Definitions:
 
"Base Salary" is defined as follows:
 
, it is the employee's annual base salary on December 31 of the plan year.
For employees paid a salary
 
, it equals the employee's Gross Earnings for the period including overtime, sick time and vacation.
For employees paid an hourly rate
 
In each case this amount excludes other payments such as Stock Option exercise proceeds, or other bonuses or ICP payments.
 
"Bonus Target" is a number that is assigned to each group of participants based on their position/grade in the compensation structure. The Bonus Target is described as a percentage of an employee's Base Salary.
 
"Corporate Financial Targets" are the targets (Revenue and Net Income) established by the Company for the plan year, as approved by the Board of Directors and reflected in the SEC Financial statements and/or Earnings Press Release.
 
"Corporate Net Income" is defined as pro-forma Net Income, per press release of year-end financial statement.
 
"Corporate Revenue" is defined as pro-forma net revenue, as set forth in the financial schedules included in the year-end press release.
 
"Individual/Team Performance Goals" are the goals identified for the particular Plan year. Individual performance component may be replaced or supplemented by team-based or region-based performance measures in some areas of the Company.
 
"Plan Component" refers to the two main elements in the ICP for which goals are established and rewards are tied to: Corporate Financial and Individual / Team.
 
"Plan Measure" refers to the specific item being measured.
 
"Prorata Target" is calculated for salaried employees by dividing the number of days an employee is participating in the Plan by the total number of days in the plan, and applying that result to the annual base salary times the target percentage.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
MID-TERM COMPENSATION PLAN (MTIP)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


