FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20050614062648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8Other Events
 
Item 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
 
On June 13, 2005 Invitrogen Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 plus a 13-day option to purchase up to an additional $50 million aggregate principal amount of the notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the press release of the Company regarding the offering of the Convertible Senior Notes. Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference under this Item 8.01.
 
Also on June 13, 2005 the Company issued a press release regarding the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the case of (2005 WL 1383624 (U.S.)). Attached as Exhibit 99.2 is the Company's press release regarding the decision. Exhibit 99.2 is incorporated by reference under this Item 8.01.
Merck KGaA v. Integra Lifesciences I, Ltd.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(a) Not Applicable
 
(b) Not Applicable
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investor and Financial Contacts:
Adam S. Taich
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) announced today that it intends to offer $300 million of senior convertible notes due 2025 to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company also intends to grant the initial purchasers of the notes an option to purchase up to an additional $50 million aggregate principal amount of the notes to cover over-allotments.
CARLSBAD, CA, June 13, 2005
 
The Company intends to use a portion of the net proceeds of the offering to repay approximately $124 million borrowed under the Company's revolving line of credit with Bank of America, N.A. The Company intends to use the balance of the net proceeds for potential acquisitions and for general corporate purposes, including the potential repayment or redemption of other outstanding debt.
 
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation to buy any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful. The securities have not been registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state laws.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq:IVGN), a leading life sciences company with a broad portfolio of technologies to improve and accelerate biomedical research, noted the U.S. Supreme Court's opinion did not extend the statutory research use exemption to patented research tools under 35 U.S.C. 271 (e)(1) in . (2005 WL 1386324 (U.S.)).
Carlsbad, Calif., June 13, 2005-
Merck KGaA v. Integra LifeSciences I, Ltd
 
The Court unanimously ruled for a broader interpretation of the exemption from patent infringement for use of a patented invention "solely for uses reasonably related to the development and submission of information under a Federal law which regulates the manufacture, use, or sale of drugs." The Court, however, specifically noted that patented "research tools" were not part of that interpretation.
 
In a footnote to the opinion, the Court stated the following:
 
"We... need notand do notexpress a view about whether, or to what extent, 271(e)(1) exempts from infringement the use of "research tools" in the development of information for the regulatory process."
 
Alan Hammond, Chief Intellectual Property Counsel for the Company, said: "In essence, while the Court found that companies may use patented inventions in research activities related to the drug compounds or targets themselves, it excluded patented research tools from its ruling. We believe, therefore, that the ruling will not have a material effect on Invitrogen's business."
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Specifically, without limitation, forward-looking statements include statements relating to the impact the case may have upon Invitrogen Corporation's future business. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and beliefs, and are subject to risks and uncertainties. As a result, actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein. Risks that relate to these forward-looking statements include the risk that other courts may extend the infringement exemption to "research tools" in the future. Further detailed information about risk factors that may impact our business is set forth in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Invitrogen
 
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq:IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The Company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery and commercial bio-production. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery, including functional genomics, proteomics, bio-informatics and cell biology, placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, Calif., and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The Company globally employs approximately 4,500 scientists and other professionals, and had revenues in excess of $1 billion in 2004. Information about Invitrogen is available on the Web at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
Contacts:
 
Invitrogen Corporation:
 
Media - Greg Geissman (760) 476-7032,
gregory.geissman@invitrogen.com
Investors - Adam Taich (760) 603-7267,
adam.taich@invitrogen.com
 
BioCom Partners (Agency):
 


