FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20050428162926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On April 28, 2005, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
 
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business.
 
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investor and Financial Contacts:
Adam S. Taich Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 
 
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2005. Revenues for the first quarter were $277.1 million, an increase of 10% over the $251.3 million reported for the first quarter of 2004. Net income for the first quarter was $47.1 million versus $10.5 million for the same quarter in 2004, an increase of 349%. Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2005 increased 332% to $0.82 per share, as compared to $0.19 per share reported in the first quarter of 2004.
CARLSBAD, CA, April 28, 2005
 
Invitrogen has regularly reported pro forma results which exclude acquisition related amortization and other costs. First quarter pro forma net income was $50.9 million, or $0.88 per share, compared with pro forma net income in the first quarter of 2004 of $35.7 million, or $0.62 per share. Pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share increased 43% and 42%, respectively.
 
Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and pro forma results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables with information also presented on the Company's Investor Relations web page at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
Performance Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast Today at 5:00 PM Eastern
 
The Company will discuss its first quarter 2005 results, as well as updated 2005 guidance on its conference call at 5:00 pm Eastern Time today. Additional details regarding the call and webcast are included later in this release.
First Quarter Review
 
Greg Lucier, Invitrogen's Chairman and CEO, commented: "We are pleased with the Company's performance during the first quarter. We exceeded our targets for both revenues and pro forma earnings per share, and have raised our annual guidance as a result. In addition, we are still on track to meet our organic growth rate projection of 6-8% for the full year. More than 200,000 catalogs, which include thousands of new, innovative products, have been shipped to our customers worldwide. We believe this will have a meaningful impact on growth for the balance of the year. We remain enthusiastic about our ability to execute in 2005 and are confident that Invitrogen will continue to deliver consistent value and returns to our customers and shareholders."
 
First quarter 2005 revenue growth of 10% included approximately 2% from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates and 4% from acquisitions. Revenue growth of 6% in BioDiscovery includes a 2% contribution from favorable foreign currency exchange rates and a 1% contribution from acquisitions. BioProduction revenues increased approximately 16% in the first quarter principally related to the acquired BioReliance business and continuing demand for cell culture products. The effects of currency and the acquisition of BioReliance, contributed 2% and 9%, respectively to the growth of the BioProduction segment.
 
First quarter 2005 gross margin was 62%, compared to 56% in the first quarter of 2004. BioDiscovery gross margin increased to 72% in the first quarter of 2005 from 70% in the first quarter of 2004, as product mix has migrated toward higher value, proprietary product offerings. BioProduction gross margin increased to 48% from 46% in the comparable quarter of 2004, as a result of a migration toward higher value cell culture products and the improvement in margins at BioReliance.
 
Operating income was 16% of revenues in the first quarter of 2005 versus 10% in the first quarter of 2004. Operating income before acquisition related amortization and other costs was 26% of revenues in the first quarter of 2005, consistent with the first quarter of 2004.
 
Cash flows from operating activities were $63.0 million and capital expenditures were $11.9 million during the first quarter of 2005. Free cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $51.1 million for the first quarter.
 
Included in other income for both GAAP and Pro Forma results is a gain of $2.7 million related to the sale of an equity investment and a gain of $2.2 million associated with the revaluation of a short-term foreign currency denominated intercompany loan. In addition, included in the GAAP results is a gain of $21.0 million, related to the hedging activity associated with the acquisition of Dynal.
 
Subsequent to the end of the quarter, Invitrogen purchased approximately $125 million of its 2 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes Due 2006. This transaction reduces the Company's fully-diluted shares outstanding by approximately 1 million shares for fiscal 2005. This transaction was financed with a short term bridge loan, which is secured by the Company's short-term marketable securities. The bridge loan facility provides up to $250 million, approximately half of which was drawn to finance the repurchase.
2005 Outlook
 
Guidance is revised upward to reflect the fact that the Company exceeded it's guidance during the first quarter and to incorporate the effect of the bond repurchase detailed earlier in the release. The Company projects that revenue for fiscal 2005 will be in a range of approximately $1,179 million to $1,195 million. Pro forma earnings per share are expected to range from $3.50 to $3.53. The Company will provide further detail on its business outlook on the conference call today.
 
Investor Day
 
Invitrogen will be hosting an investor day on June 16, 2005 in Carlsbad, CA at the Company's headquarters. The meeting will begin at 8AM and will conclude at noon. Further details will be provided in a future press release.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
The Company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 5 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
 
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
 
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (888) 396-2298 (domestic) or (617) 847-8708 (international) and use passcode 82774482. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and (617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 80637794.
 
About Invitrogen
 
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company globally employs approximately 4,500 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of more than $1 billion in 2004. For more information about Invitrogen, visit the company's web site at www.invitrogen.com.
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding acquisition related amortization and other similar costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
 
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented on the following pages.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and pro forma earnings per share; 2) momentum in 2005; 3) ability to generate new products that will accelerate scientific research and our future growth; 4) integration of acquired businesses; and 5) ability to combine technologies of acquired businesses. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology and, new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


