FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20060803163354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 3, 2006, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended June 30, 2006. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share, excluding merger related amortization and business integration costs, are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the costs to integrate our acquired businesses or significant costs to restructure existing businesses as well as related tax benefits. Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor and Financial Contacts:
Amanda Clardy
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7200
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2006. Revenues for the second quarter were $314 million, an increase of 2% over the $306 million reported for the second quarter of 2005. Foreign currency translation had minimal effect on sales growth rate. Net income for the second quarter was $20 million versus $15 million for the same quarter in 2005. GAAP earnings per share for the second quarter of 2006 were $0.36 per share, as compared to $0.27 per share reported in the second quarter of 2005, an increase of 33%. Earnings per share in 2006 includes lower expenses associated with the write up of acquisition inventory to fair market value as a result of a business combination and a gain on the sale of the company's German contract manufacturing business in April.
CARLSBAD, CA, August 3, 2006
Invitrogen reports pro forma results which excludes certain items primarily related to acquisitions, business divestitures and stock option expensing. The Company reports these pro forma results to better enable financial statement users to assess our historical performance and project our future earnings and cash flows. Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and pro forma results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables and on the Company's Investor Relations web page at .
www.invitrogen.com
Pro forma net income for the second quarter of 2006 was $49 million, or $0.90 per share, compared with pro forma net income in the second quarter of 2005 of $51 million, or $0.87 per share.
Through the first six months of 2006, revenues for the Company were $623 million, a 7% increase over revenues in the first six months of 2005 of $584 million. Pro forma net income for the first six months was $98 million, or $1.80 earnings per share, compared with $102 million, or $1.76 earnings per share for the same period in 2005.
Second Quarter Review
Second quarter revenue growth of 2% included a positive impact from acquisitions which was offset by a 1% decline in organic growth. The decline in organic growth was driven by an increase of 3% in BioDiscovery, offset by a decline of 8% in BioProduction. The BioDiscovery segment had strong growth in core customer segments, such as academic and biotech, as well as key product areas, such as labeling & detection, gene expression and drug discovery. The strong growth in these areas was somewhat offset by sales ordering challenges related to the implementation of a new ERP system in Europe and the short term impact of facility consolidations associated with acquisition integrations.
BioProduction negative growth was attributable to declining sera revenue and the timing of manufacturing orders. This decline was partially offset by healthy demand for cell culture research media.
"We are pleased with the strong performance of our BioDiscovery products to biotech and academic customers, as well as the double digit growth in emerging markets. The issues we had this quarter are identifiable to a few areas: our sera business, cell culture production, the facility consolidation started in second quarter and our system conversion in Europe, which was a one time event. We know where the problems are and we have action plans in place to fix them," said Greg Lucier, Chairman and CEO, Invitrogen Corporation. "Given the first half performance and greater visibility into the second half, we will be updating our guidance on our call today."
Second quarter 2006 pro forma gross margin was 62%, in line with the second quarter of 2005. BioDiscovery gross margin decreased slightly to 70% in the second quarter of 2006 from 71% last year, primarily due to the absorption of new acquisitions. BioProduction gross margin decreased to 46% from 48% in the comparable quarter of 2005, primarily due to changes in volume.
Pro forma operating margin was 23% of revenues in the second quarter of 2006 versus 25% in the second quarter of 2005. The decline was primarily the result of lower first half volume and continued investment in sales, marketing and R&D, which was partially offset by a reduction in the accrual for payments to management for incentive compensation due to the Company's expected full year performance.
"Although, our current rate of investment in the business has outpaced our revenue growth, it is due to the targeted investments we have made in our infrastructure to support the long term success of the company. However, we believe there are specific pockets of opportunity in our cost structure that can be optimized over the next several months." stated David Hoffmeister, CFO, Invitrogen Corporation.
Cash flows from operating activities were $57 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006. Capital expenditures were $32 million during the first half of 2006. Free cash flow, defined as cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $25 million for the first half of 2006. Free cash flow for the quarter was affected by the system conversion in Europe, which increased receivables, and an increase in inventory due to sera collections and prebuilding for European holiday schedules.
$500 Million Share Repurchase Program
Today the company also announced a $500 million share repurchase program. This three-year program authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase shares from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors.
"We are continually assessing the best way to optimize shareholder value," said Hoffmeister. "The share repurchase program reflects the confidence we have in the organic growth potential of our business. We will have approximately $1 billion of funds available by year end, which gives us the ability to do a buyback in the near term, as well as continue to evaluate potential acquisitions."
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The Company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 5 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (800) 706-7749 (domestic) or (617) 614-3474 (international) and use passcode 58200727. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and (617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 11313109.
About Invitrogen
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The Company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The Company globally employs approximately 4,800 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of $1.2 billion in 2005. For more information about Invitrogen, visit the Company's web site at www.invitrogen.com.
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We regularly have reported non-GAAP measures for net income and earnings per share as pro forma results. These measures are provided as supplementary information and are not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These pro forma measures are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business results.
We define our pro forma results as our GAAP results excluding the after tax impact of the following items:
 
Management views these excluded items as not indicative of the operating results or cash flows of its operations and excludes these items as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. This presentation of our pro forma results is consistent with how management internally evaluates the performance of its operations.
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our pro forma disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented on the following pages.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and pro forma earnings per share; 2) plans to fix underperforming businesses in our portfolio; 3) momentum in 2006; 4) ability to generate new products that will accelerate scientific research and our future growth; 5) integration of acquired businesses; 6) plans to repurchase the Company's Common Stock or Convertible Notes; and 7) plans to optimize expenses and increase operating margins. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology and new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


