FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20070213165536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On February 13, 2007, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended December 31, 2006. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
99.1    Invitrogen Corporation press release dated February 13, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor and Financial Contacts:
Amanda Clardy
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7200
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. Revenues for the fourth quarter were $330 million, resulting in full year sales of $1,263 million, an increase of 5 percent over the $1,198 million reported for 2005.
CARLSBAD, CA, February 13, 2007
"We are encouraged with our performance in the fourth quarter. We were able to make progress on several critical business issues in a short period of time, resulting in financial results above our expectations. In addition, we entered into a definitive agreement to divest BioReliance, allowing us now to focus on our platform of scientific technologies," said Greg Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Invitrogen.
As a result of the portfolio review initiated last year, Invitrogen today announced several actions taken to leverage the company's strengths and concentrate resources on core competencies. The company reached a definitive agreement to sell its BioReliance business unit to Avista Capital Partners for approximately $210 million. BioReliance, a contract service organization providing biological safety testing, toxicology, viral manufacturing, and laboratory animal diagnostic services, generated approximately $110 million in annual revenue. It will be considered a discontinued operating unit beginning January 1, 2007. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the second quarter. UBS Investment Bank acted as exclusive financial advisor to Invitrogen on the transaction.
Invitrogen also announced that earlier this month it sold BioSource Europe S.A., a diagnostic business located in Belgium, to a private investor group in Belgium. This subsidiary, with revenues of $7 million per year, was a small component of BioSource, which was acquired in 2005.
Fourth quarter diluted earnings per share was a loss of $2.08, which includes $2.45 per share related to goodwill impairment charges primarily associated with the Cell Culture Systems segment, $0.13 per share
 
of stock option expensing and $0.51 per share for amortization and other items. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes these items, diluted earnings per share was $1.01, an increase of 12 percent over the same period last year. For the full year, diluted earnings per share was a loss of $3.72, which includes $5.12 per share related to goodwill impairment charges, $0.57 per share of stock option expensing and $1.70 of other items noted in the table below. On a non-GAAP basis, full year earnings per share was $3.67. The following analysis of diluted earnings per share identifies specific items that affect the comparability of results between periods.
 
Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and non-GAAP results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables and on the company's Investor Relations web page at .
www.invitrogen.com
Analysis of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2006 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment and Geographic Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Product Highlights
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2007 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company provided its expectations for fiscal year 2007 financial performance. Revenue from continuing operations is expected to increase low-to-mid single digits in 2007. Non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to grow two to three times the rate of revenue. Divestitures are expected to be EPS neutral. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the conference call today.
"Although we had improved financial performance in the fourth quarter of 2006, we still have work in front of us to accelerate organic growth and optimize operating margins. However, we believe the decisions we made to divest of some non-core units, and the action plans in place for the balance of the portfolio will enable us to capitalize fully on the strength of our franchise and maximize shareholder value," said David Hoffmeister, Invitrogen's Chief Financial Officer.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 5 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (800) 901-5231 (domestic) or (617) 786-2961 (international) and use passcode 17485643. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and ((617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 14382291.
About Invitrogen
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq:IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California, and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company is celebrating 20 years of accelerating scientific discovery. Invitrogen globally employs approximately 5,000 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of approximately $1.26 billion in 2006. For more information, visit .
www.invitrogen.com
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We regularly have reported non-GAAP measures for net income and earnings per share as non-GAAP results. These measures are provided as supplementary information and are not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business results.
We define our non-GAAP results as our GAAP results excluding the after tax impact of the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these excluded items as not indicative of the operating results or cash flows of its operations and excludes these items as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. This presentation of our non-GAAP results is consistent with how management internally evaluates the performance of its operations.
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our non-GAAP disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and non-GAAP results are presented on the following pages.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share; 2) plans to address underperforming businesses in our portfolio; 3) momentum in 2007; and 4) plans to accelerate organic growth and increase operating margins. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology and new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


