FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20070501170357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On May 1, 2007, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended March 31, 2007. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor and Financial Contacts:
Amanda Clardy
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7200
NOT FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2007. Revenue for the first quarter was $309 million, an increase of 10 percent over first quarter 2006 revenue of $280 million, excluding the impact of discontinued operations.
CARLSBAD, CA, May 1, 2007
"We are very pleased with our strong first quarter results and with the fact that we have made progress against all our core focus areas. These results serve as a solid launching point for the remainder of 2007. I'm confident we're successfully repositioning the company for sustained, profitable growth." said Greg Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Invitrogen.
First quarter diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $0.62, which includes $0.13 per share of stock option expensing and $0.39 per share for amortization and other items. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes these items, diluted earnings per share was $1.14, an increase of 33 percent over the same period last year. The following analysis of diluted earnings per share identifies specific items that affect the comparability of results between periods.
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
Reconciliations between Invitrogen's GAAP and non-GAAP results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables and on the company's website at .
www.invitrogen.com
Successful completion of divestiture transactions
In early 2007, the company completed the sale of two of its business units, BioReliance and BioSource Europe. As a result, the financial statements for these business units have been moved to discontinued operations. Revised non-GAAP financials for fiscal year 2006 have been posted to the companies website at .
www.invitrogen.com
Analysis of First Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment and Geographic Highlights
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Product Highlights
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
Fiscal Year 2007 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company reiterated the full year expectations provided in February of this year. Revenue from continuing operations is expected to increase in the low-to-mid single digits in 2007. Non-GAAP earnings per share is expected to grow 2 to 3 times revenue growth.
In addition, the company has now provided revised 2006 full year financials to exclude discontinued operations. Using the revised financials as a base, the company provided expectations for non-GAAP EPS growth. Non-GAAP EPS is expected to grow approximately 3 to 4 times the rate of revenue, which is equivalent to previously stated expectations for EPS growth off the As Reported 2006 financials.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 5 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (800) 901-5248 (domestic) or (617) 786-4521 (international) and use passcode 97062941. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and (617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 91983103.
About Invitrogen
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California, and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company is celebrating 20 years of accelerating scientific discovery. Invitrogen globally employs approximately 4,300 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of approximately $1.15 billion in 2006. For more information, visit .
www.invitrogen.com
Exhibit 99.1
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We regularly have reported non-GAAP measures for net income and earnings per share as non-GAAP results. These measures are provided as supplementary information and are not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business results.
We define our non-GAAP results as our GAAP results excluding the after tax impact of the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these excluded items as not indicative of the operating results or cash flows of its operations and excludes these items as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. This presentation of our non-GAAP results is consistent with how management internally evaluates the performance of its operations.
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our non-GAAP disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and non-GAAP results are presented on the following pages.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share; 2) plans to address underperforming businesses in our portfolio; 3) momentum in 2007; and 4) plans to accelerate organic growth and increase operating margins. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology and new product development opportunities; b) the Company's ability to identify and implement measures to effect cost savings and efficiency improvements; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


