FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20070801162553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On August 1, 2007, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended June 30, 2007. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
We exclude from our pro forma results the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq: IVGN) today announced results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2007. Revenues for the second quarter were $322 million, an increase of 13 percent over the $285 million for 2006, excluding the impact of discontinued operations.
CARLSBAD, CA, August 1, 2007
"The intense focus we placed on operations, IT infrastructure and integrations during the last twelve months is delivering results," said Greg Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Invitrogen. "Moving forward, the tightly integrated portfolio of technologies we have built in recent years around cellular science makes us well positioned to capitalize on research trends in cell biology and the growth of biologics."
Second quarter diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $0.62, which includes $0.15 per share of stock option expensing and $0.38 per share for amortization and other items. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes these items, diluted earnings per share was $1.15, an increase of 35 percent over the same period last year. The following analysis of diluted earnings per share identifies specific items that affect the comparability of results between periods.
 
Reconciliations between Invitrogen's results and non-GAAP results for the periods reported are presented in the attached tables and on the company's Investor Relations page at .
www.invitrogen.com
Through the first six months of 2007, revenues for the company were $630 million, an 11 percent increase over revenues in the first six months of 2006, excluding discontinued operations. Non-GAAP net income for the first six months of 2007 was $110 million and non-GAAP earnings per share was $2.29, compared with $94 million or $1.71 non-GAAP earnings per share for the same period in 2006.
Share Repurchase Program
The company announced the completion of its 2006 $500 million share repurchase program, with the purchase of 0.7 million shares for $50 million within the quarter. The company also announced today that its Board of Directors has approved another $500 million share repurchase program. The new three-year program authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors. The share repurchase program will be executed through one or more written plans designed to comply with SEC Rule 10b5-1.
"This new share repurchase program will enable the company to continue to actively manage its balance sheet to enhance shareholder value," said David Hoffmeister, Invitrogen's Chief Financial Officer.
Analysis of Second Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment and Geographic Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2007 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company provided revenue expectations for the full year of mid-single digit growth. Using revised 2006 financials as a base, non-GAAP EPS is expected to grow approximately 3 to 4 times the rate of revenue.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 5 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
The conference call will be webcast live over the Company's investor relations website at and will be archived at the site for one month.
www.invitrogen.com
To listen to the live conference call, please dial (800) 901-5231 (domestic) or (617) 786-2961 (international) and use passcode 66848456. A replay of the call will be available for one week by dialing (888) 286-8010 (domestic) and (617) 801-6888 (international). The passcode for the replay is 75052199.
About Invitrogen
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq:IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California, and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company is celebrating 20 years of accelerating scientific discovery. Invitrogen globally employs approximately 4,300 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of approximately $1.15 billion in 2006. For more information, visit .
www.invitrogen.com
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We regularly have reported non-GAAP measures for net income and earnings per share as non-GAAP results. These measures are provided as supplementary information and are not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business results.
We define our non-GAAP results as our GAAP results excluding the after tax impact of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these excluded items as not indicative of the operating results or cash flows of its operations and excludes these items as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. This presentation of our non-GAAP results is consistent with how management internally evaluates the performance of its operations.
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our non-GAAP disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and non-GAAP results are presented on the following pages.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share; 2) plans regarding our share repurchase program; 3) momentum in 2007; and 4) plans to accelerate organic growth and increase operating margins. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology and new product development opportunities; b) the Company's repurchase shares of its common stock at prices that are acceptable to its Board of Directors and management; and c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


