FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20070302171056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
2007 Equity Grant to Chief Executive Officer.
On February 28, 2007, the Board of Directors approved a grant of 400,000 performance shares to the Chief Executive Officer. The performance share grant, which is effective March 1, 2007, will vest on February 28, 2010, only if (a) the price of our common stock meets certain targets in the interim and (b) the CEO remains employed by the Company on that date; provided that if the CEO's employment is terminated due to his death, disability or a not-for-cause termination by the Company, any tranche of performance shares associated with a target that has been achieved will vest upon the termination. None of the performance shares will vest unless the arithmetic mean of the closing prices of our common stock over a continuous twenty trading day period meets or exceeds $80.00 per share, and then only five percent of the performance shares will vest. The remaining performance shares would be earned, based on achieving targeted closing prices for our common stock between $80.00 and $105.00 per share, and would vest on February 28, 2010. For each target closing price between $80.00 and $105.00 per share, no performance shares will vest unless the arithmetic mean of the closing prices of our common stock over a continuous twenty-day period meets or exceeds the applicable target closing price per share. Larger portions of the performance share grant would vest upon the achievement of higher targeted closing prices. It is the intent of the Board of Directors that this be the only equity grant made to the Chief Executive Officer for the years 2007 through 2009. Although the performance targets for vesting of the performance shares represent a significant increase from the Company's current stock price, and there are no assurances that such performance targets will be achieved, the Board of Directors and the Committee believes that this grant and the related performance targets further align the interests of the Chief Executive Officer and the stockholders over the long-term, and will encourage behaviors in the Chief Executive Officer that will provide increases in stockholder value. The Board of Directors and Committee believe that other elements of the CEO's compensation are aligned toward near-term goals.
2007 Incentive Compensation Plan.
On February 27, 2007 the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of the Board approved the Company's 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (the ""). The 2007 ICP provides for an annual cash bonus based on the Company's achievement of financial goals, and on the achievement of results relative to individual objectives.
2007 ICP
The 2007 ICP will be funded based on the Company's pro forma operating income. The Company must achieve 95% of its pro forma operating income target before bonuses are earned under the plan. However, the Company has the discretion to maintain a small non-incentive bonus reserve for exceptional employee recognition, reward and retention. Once the Company meets the 95% threshold for pro forma operating income, the Company will fund an incentive bonus pool, and will assign each eligible employee a preliminary bonus amount.
Each employee's preliminary bonus amount under the 2007 ICP is subject to an individual multiplier based on achievement of individual goals and objectives. Under the 2007 ICP, an employee may earn from 0% to 200% of such employee's target bonus amount, depending on his/her performance as measured against the objectives set forth for such individual at the beginning of the year to which the 2007 ICP applies, or during the annual performance review process. The target bonus amounts are expressed as a percentage of an executive's base salary. For example, target bonus amounts for 2007 were 150% for the CEO and 60% for non-executive officers. The total award to any one individual is capped at 200% of the individual's target bonus amount.
Non-Employee Director Compensation.
On February 28, 2007, the Board approved an amendment to its non-employee director compensation program. Under the amended program, each non-employee director shall be entitled to receive $250,000 in fixed annual compensation, payable 30% in cash and 70% in equity.
The cash portion of the compensation is paid in advance, at the beginning of each calendar quarter. Under the amended program, the presiding director and the chair of each Board committee is entitled to an additional $10,000 per annum in cash compensation. The amount of cash payments under the amended plan is determined for the subsequent four quarters at the first Board meeting following the annual meeting. The cash payment is prorated for any non-employee director who joins the board during a quarter.
The equity portion of the compensation is paid in restricted stock units, which are granted at the first Board meeting following the annual meeting. The restricted stock units are subject to full vesting at the earlier of the first anniversary of the grant date or the date of the next annual meeting. The restricted stock units will be subject to a three-year minimum holding period while the individual is a member of the Board. The non-employee director can elect to have them issued at a specified time after the three years, or, if no election is made, the restricted stock units will be issued at termination of Board service. The restricted stock units will be taxed when issued. The number of restricted stock units will be prorated for any new non-employee director joining the Company during the year.
The amendment further changed the stock ownership guidelines for non-employee directors, such that each non-employee director is required to own 10,000 shares. Each current non-employee director must comply within three years; each new director will have five years to become compliant.
Form of Change-In-Control Agreements for Executive Officers.
On February 27, 2007 the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee approved two Form of Change-In-Control Agreements for the Company's executive officers, one form to be used for executive officers hired on or before February 28, 2007, and one form to be used for executive officers hired after February 28, 2007. The changes in each form of agreement are designed to comply with new regulations under Internal Revenue Code 409A. The sole difference between the forms is that the latter contains a non-disparagement and non-solicitation provision that is omitted from the former.
The Form Change-In-Control Agreements set out certain benefits to the Company's executive officers in the event of a change in control. Upon a change in control, the Company must keep the executive in its employ, and the executive must remain in the employ of the Company, for 24 months following the effective date of the change in control. During the 24 month period, the executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities cannot be substantially diminished, the place of work must remain within 50 miles of the place where the executive was employed prior to the change in control. In addition, during this period the executive's base salary cannot be less than the highest annualized base salary received by the executive in the three years immediately prior to the change in control, and the executive is entitled to a cash bonus no less than the higher of the (a) average annualized bonus paid under any incentive compensation plan for the three fiscal years prior to the change in control; and (b) the amount the executive would have been paid but for such executive's participation in the Company's deferred compensation arrangement, had the executive's participation in such arrangement remained in effect following the change in control. The executive also remains eligible for incentive savings and retirement plans, welfare benefit plans generally available to peer executives, and is entitled to reimbursement of business expenses, to obtain fringe benefits, to office and support staff and to vacation time all in accordance with the most favored practices and policies of the Company available to the executive in the 90 days prior to the change in control.
Should the executive's employment with the Company terminate during the 24 month period, the Company has the following obligations: (a) upon termination by reason of death, to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; (b) upon termination by reason of disability, to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; (c) upon termination for cause, to pay all salary through the termination date plus any deferred compensation; (d) if executive terminates the employment (other than for good reason), to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; and (e) if the Company terminates the employment other than for cause or disability, or the executive terminates the employment for good reason, to (1) pay the aggregate sum of (i) all accrued obligations; (ii) two times the sum of the executive's annual base salary and the higher of either (A) the average annualized bonus paid (or payable but for a deferral) for the three years immediately preceding the change in control, or (B) the targeted annual bonus payable to the executive under the Company's incentive compensation plan for the fiscal year the change in control occurs (assuming 100% achievement of Company and executive performance factors); (iii) any guaranteed or targeted long-term incentive bonus that would have been payable within two years of termination; and (iv) an amount equal to the portion of the Company's contribution to the executive's 401(k) savings or similar account which has not vested as of the termination date; (2) pay up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services; (3) for the remainder of the 24 months, continue benefits for executive and family as if the employment had not been terminated; (4) vest all outstanding options, warrants, restricted stock grants and other equity awards, and grant the executive 12 months from date of termination to exercise such equity awards; (5) cause the acquiring entity, if any, to assume the Company's obligations under any equity awards plan, or substitute outstanding equity awards for equity grants in the acquiring entity; and (6) if executive relocated, at the company's request, in the calendar year of the termination, or the immediately preceding calendar year, pay the cost of relocating the executive to any place, so long as the costs therefor do not exceed the original relocation costs.
The Form of Change-In-Control Agreements for executive officers are attached as Exhibit 99.1 (for executives hired on or before February 28, 2007) and Exhibit 99.2 (for executives hired after February 28, 2007) to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are hereby incorporated by this reference.
Form of Change-In-Control Agreement for Chief Executive Officer.
On February 28, 2007 the Board of Directors approved a form of Amended and Restated Change-In-Control Agreement for the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The changes in the form of agreement are designed to comply with new regulations under Internal Revenue Code 409A.
The form of Amended and Restated Change-In-Control Agreement sets out certain benefits to the Company's Chief Executive Officer in the event of a change in control. Upon a change in control, the Company must keep the executive in its employ, and the executive must remain in the employ of the Company, for 24 months following the effective date of the change in control. During the 24 month period, the executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities cannot be substantially diminished, the place of work must remain within 50 miles of the place where the executive was employed prior to the change in control. In addition, during this period the executive's base salary cannot be less than the highest annualized base salary received by the executive in the three years immediately prior to the change in control, and the executive is entitled to a cash bonus no less than the higher of the (a) average annualized bonus paid under any incentive compensation plan for the three fiscal years prior to the change in control; and (b) the amount the executive would have been paid but for such executive's participation in the Company's deferred compensation arrangement, had the executive's participation in such arrangement remained in effect following the change in control. The executive also remains eligible for incentive savings and retirement plans, welfare benefit plans generally available to peer executives, and is entitled to reimbursement of business expenses, to obtain fringe benefits, to office and support staff and to vacation time all in accordance with the most favored practices and policies of the Company available to the executive in the 90 days prior to the change in control.
Should the executive's employment with the Company terminate during the 24 month period, the Company has the following obligations: (a) upon termination by reason of death, to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; (b) upon termination by reason of disability, to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; (c) upon termination for cause, to pay all salary through the termination date plus any deferred compensation; (d) if executive terminates the employment (other than for good reason), to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; and (e) if the Company terminates the employment other than for cause or disability, or the executive terminates the employment for good reason, to (1) pay the aggregate sum of (i) all accrued obligations; (ii) two times the sum of the executive's annual base salary and the higher of either (A) the average annualized bonus paid (or payable but for a deferral) for the three years immediately preceding the change in control, or (B) the targeted annual bonus payable to the executive under the Company's incentive compensation plan for the fiscal year the change in control occurs (assuming 100% achievement of Company and executive performance factors); (iii) any guaranteed or targeted long-term incentive bonus that would have been payable within two years of termination; and (iv) an amount equal to the portion of the Company's contribution to the executive's 401(k) savings or similar account which has not vested as of the termination date; (2) pay up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services; (3) for the remainder of the 24 months, continue benefits for executive and family as if the employment had not been terminated; (4) vest all outstanding options, warrants, restricted stock grants and other equity awards, and grant the executive 12 months from date of termination to exercise such equity awards; (5) cause the acquiring entity, if any, to assume the Company's obligations under any equity awards plan, or substitute outstanding equity awards for equity grants in the acquiring entity; and (6) if executive relocated, at the company's request, in the calendar year of the termination, or the immediately preceding calendar year, pay the cost of relocating the executive to any place, so long as the costs therefore do not exceed the original relocation costs.
The Form of Amended and Restated Change-In-Control Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is hereby incorporated by this reference.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
The disclosure provided in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by this reference.
Appointment of Director.
Effective March 1, 2007 the Board has appointed Dr. Per A. Peterson to serve on the Company's Board. Dr. Peterson was appointed as a Class I director. There were no arrangements or understandings by which Dr. Peterson was named a director. Dr. Peterson has been appointed to the Science and Technology Committee of the Board. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries were involved in any transactions with Dr. Peterson or his immediate family that are reportable pursuant to Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Dr. Peterson recently retired as Chairman, Research & Development, at Johnson & Johnson, and was a member of the Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson. Dr. Peterson joined Johnson & Johnson in 1994 as Vice President, Drug Discovery, of the R.W. Johnson Pharmaceutical Research Institute. He was named Group Vice President of the Pharmaceutical Research Institute in April 1998 and its President in November 1998. In 2000 Dr. Peterson was named Chairman, Research & Development, Pharmaceuticals Group. Dr. Peterson became a Member of the Executive Committee in 2001. Born in Kalmar, Sweden, Dr. Peterson received his B.M. in Medicine and his Ph.D. in Medicinal Biochemistry from the University of Uppsala, Sweden.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
This CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("the Agreement") by and between INVITROGEN CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation (the "Company"), and [Name] (the "Executive"), dated as of the
    
th
Day of , 20.
                    
        
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below).
WHEREAS, the Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of the Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change in Control and to encourage the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in Control, and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change in Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of the Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements contained in this Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Executive and the Company hereby agree as follows:
1.
Certain Definitions
(a) The "Effective Date" shall be the first date during the "Change in Control Period" (as defined in Section l(b)) on which a Change in Control occurs; provided that the Executive is employed on that date. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated or the Executive ceases to be an officer of the Company prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of the Change in Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer.
(b) The "Change in Control Period" is the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the second anniversary of such date, provided, however, that commencing on the date one year after the date hereof, and on each annual anniversary of such date (such date and each annual anniversary thereof is hereinafter referred to as the "Renewal Date"), the Change in Control Period shall be automatically extended so as to terminate two years from such Renewal Date, unless at least 60 days prior to the Renewal Date the Company shall give written notice to the Executive that the Change in Control Period shall not be so extended.
2. . For the purpose of this Agreement:
Change in Control
(a) a "Change in Control" shall mean:
(i) Any acquisition or series of acquisitions, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"), , that (A) any acquisition by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, (B) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (C) any acquisition or series of acquisitions which results in any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) acquiring beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and while such a beneficial owner such individual, entity or group does not exercise the voting power of his, her or its Outstanding Company Common Stock or otherwise exercise control with respect to any matter concerning or affecting the Company and promptly sells, transfers, assigns or otherwise disposes of that number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock necessary to reduce his, her or its beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of the Outstanding Company Common Stock to below 50%, as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control; or
provided, however
(ii) Individuals who as of April 27, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to April 27, 2001, whose election, or nomination for election, by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of the Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) relating to the election of directors of the Company; or
(iii) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company, in each case, with respect to which all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or
 
consolidation do not, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation.
3. . The Company hereby agrees to continue the Executive in its employ, and the Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending at the end of the 24th month following the Effective Date (the "Employment Period").
Employment Period
4.
Terms of Employment
(a) .
Position and Duties
(i) During the Employment Period, (A) the Executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities shall not be substantially diminished from the most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than 50 miles from such location.
(ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company.
(b) .
Compensation
(i) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary"), which shall be paid at a monthly rate, at least equal to the highest annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) base salary paid or payable to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies in respect of the three years immediately
Base Salary
 
preceding the Effective Date. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in base salary generally awarded in the ordinary course of business to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to the Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliated companies" includes any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company.
(ii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary, the Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year during the Employment Period, an annual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") in cash at least equal to the higher of either (A) the average annualized (for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) Incentive Compensation Plan bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three fiscal years or lesser number of fiscal years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs, or (B) in the event the annual bonus under an Incentive Compensation Plan is paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangement, in respect of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs was based upon a formula, guaranteed amount, or plan in which the Executive participated, then such Annual Bonus shall be at least equal to the bonus which would be payable based on such formula, guaranteed amount, or plan had the Executive's participation therein and level of participation remained in effect following the Effective Date. Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the end of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless the Executive shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual Bonus.
Annual Bonus
(iii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus payable as hereinabove provided, the Executive shall be entitled to participate during the Employment Period in all incentive (including but not limited to long-term incentive bonus), savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with incentive opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special incentive opportunities), savings opportunities and retirement benefits opportunities, in each case, less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies for the Executive under such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans
(iv) . During the Employment Period, the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided
Welfare Benefit Plans
 
by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide benefits which are less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of such plans, practices, policies and programs in effect for the Executive and/or the Executive's family at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
(v) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable business expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Business Expenses
(vi) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Fringe Benefits
(vii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as provided at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Office and Support Staff
(viii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies as in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Vacation
5.
Termination of Employment
(a) The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability (as defined below) of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period, it may give to the Executive written notice in accordance with Section 19(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the
Death or Disability.
 
Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative (such agreement as to acceptability not to be withheld unreasonably).
(b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period for "Cause" only in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
Cause
(i) For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means (A) repeated violations by the Executive of the Executive's material responsibilities and material duties under Section 4(a) of this Agreement which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive's part and which are not remedied in a reasonable period of time after receipt of written notice from the Company, (B) commission of an intentional act of fraud, embezzlement or theft by the Executive in connection with the Executive's duties or in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company or its affiliated companies, (C) violation of any law, regulation, or rule applicable to the Company's business or reputation, including, without limitation securities laws, (D) causing intentional wrongful damage to property of the Company or its affiliated companies, (E) intentionally and wrongfully disclosing secret processes or confidential information of the Company or its affiliated companies, (F) conviction of, or plea of to, a felony, which conviction or plea materially harms the business or reputation of the Company, or (G) participating, without the Company's express written consent, in the management of any business enterprise which engages in substantial and direct competition with the Company or its affiliated companies, provided that in the case of clauses (A) through (F), any such act or omission shall have been materially harmful to the Company or its affiliated companies.
nolo contendere
(ii) The Company may not terminate the Executive's employment for Cause under clause (C), (D), or (E) of such definition set forth above unless: (a) the Company provides the Executive with written notice of its intent to terminate the Executive's employment for Cause, including a detailed description of the specific reasons which form the basis for such consideration; (b) within thirty (30) days after the date such notice is provided, the Executive shall have a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board, with or without legal representation, at the Executive's election and at the Executive's expense, to present arguments and evidence on his own behalf to defend such act or acts, or failure to act, and, if, as determined by the Board, such act or failure to act is correctable, the Executive shall be given thirty (30) days after such meeting to correct such act or failure to act; and (c) following presentation to the Board as provided in clause (b) above or the Executive's failure to appear before the Board at a date and time specified in the notice and, following expiration of the thirty (30) day period in which to correct such acts or failures to act that the Board has determined are correctable, the Executive may be terminated for Cause only if (1) the Board, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its members (excluding the Executive and any other member of the Board reasonably believed
 
by the Board to be involved in the events leading the Board to terminate the Executive for Cause), determines that the acts or failures to act of the Executive specified in the notice occurred and remained uncorrected, and the Executive's employment should accordingly be terminated for Cause; and (2) the Board provides the Executive with a written determination setting forth in specific detail the basis of such termination of employment which are consistent with the reasons set forth in the notice.
(c) . The Executive's employment may be terminated during the Employment Period by the Executive for "Good Reason." For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means
Good Reason
(i) a substantial diminution in the Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 4(a) of this Agreement, excluding non-substantial changes in title or office, and excluding any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
(ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4(b) of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
(iii) the Company requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location other than that described in Section 4(a)(i)(B) hereof or, requiring the Executive to travel away from his or her office in the course of discharging responsibilities or duties which is significantly more frequent (in terms of either consecutive days or aggregate days in any calendar year) than was required prior to the Change in Control;
(iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or
(v) any failure by any successor to the Company to comply with and satisfy 18(c) of this Agreement, provided that such successor has received at least ten (10) days prior written notice from the Company or the Executive of the requirements of Section 18(c) of this Agreement.
For the purposes of this Section 5(c), any good faith determination of "Good Reason" made by the Executive shall be conclusive.
(d) . Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason shall be communicated by "Notice of Termination" to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 19(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the
Notice of Termination
 
Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than fifteen days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause, as the case may be, shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
(e) . "Date of Termination" means the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be; provided, however, that (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination and (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
6.
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
(a) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than the following obligations: (i) payment of the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) payment of the product of (x) the Annual Bonus and any long-term incentive bonus paid, guaranteed to be paid, or payable but for any deferral (and annualized for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or for which the Executive has been employed for less than twelve full months) to the Executive for the most recently completed fiscal year during the Employment Period, and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, (iii) payment of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together with any accrued interest thereon) and not yet paid by the Company and any accrued vacation pay not yet paid by the Company, (iv) payment of any earned or guaranteed Annual Bonus, long-term incentive bonus or other incentive compensation payments attributable to prior fiscal years to the extent not theretofore paid, and (v) payment for any substantiated business and relocation expenses incurred by the Executive to the extent not theretofore reimbursed (the amounts described in clauses (i) through (v) above are hereafter referred to as "Accrued Obligations"). All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive's family shall be entitled to receive benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided generally by the Company and any of its affiliated companies to surviving families of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to family death benefits, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family as in effect on the date of the Executive's death generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Death
 
(b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled peer executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as in effect at any time thereafter through the Date of Termination generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Disability
(c) . If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay to the Executive the Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination plus the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If the Executive terminates employment during the Employment Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination.
Cause
(d) . If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause or Disability, or the Executive shall terminate employment under this Agreement for Good Reason:
Good Reason or Termination Without Cause
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive the aggregate of the following amounts, such amounts to be payable by the Company in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of termination.
A. All Accrued Obligations; and
B. times the sum of the Executive's Annual Base Salary and the higher of either (i) the average annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three years or lesser number of years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the Effective Date, or (ii) the targeted annual bonus payable to the Executive pursuant to the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (assuming 100% achievement of the Company performance factor and 100% achievement of the Executive's personal performance factor); and
2.0
 
C. Any guaranteed or targeted long-term incentive bonus that would have been payable within two years of the Date of Termination; and
D. An amount equal to that portion, if any, of the Company's contribution to the Executive's 401(k), savings or other similar individual account plan which is not vested as of the Date of Termination (the "Unvested Company Contribution"), plus an amount which when added to the Unvested Company Contribution would be sufficient after Federal, state and local income taxes (based on the tax returns filed by the Executive most recently prior to the Date of Termination) to enable the Executive to net an amount equal to the Unvested Company Contribution; and
(ii) the Company shall pay the Executive up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services utilized by the Executive upon the receipt by the Company of written receipts or other appropriate documentation; and
(iii) for the remainder of the Employment Period, or such longer period as any plan, program, practice or policy may provide, the Company shall continue benefits at the Company's expense to the Executive and, where applicable, the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not been terminated in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs or policies of the Company and its affiliated companies generally applicable to other peer executives and their families during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families; provided, however, that if the Executive becomes employed elsewhere during the Employment Period and is thereby afforded comparable insurance and welfare benefits to those described in Section 4(b)(iv), the Company's obligation to continue providing the Executive with such benefits shall cease or be correspondingly reduced, as the case may be. For purposes of determining eligibility of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until the end of the Employment Period and to have retired on the last day of such period; and
(iv) All outstanding stock options, shares of restricted stock and other equity based awards held by the Executive pursuant to any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement or other agreement shall immediately become vested and exercisable as to all or any part of the shares covered thereby, with the Executive being able to exercise his stock options within a period of twelve months following the Date of Termination or such longer period as may be permitted under Executive's stock option agreements; and
(v) The Company shall make its best efforts to require the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or parent corporation thereof, as the
 
case may be (the "Acquiring Corporation"), to either assume the Company's rights and obligations under any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement or substitute for outstanding options or restricted shares substantially equivalent options or restricted shares of the Acquiring Corporation's stock. For this purpose, a stock option or restricted share shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the stock option or restricted share confers the right to receive in accordance with its terms and conditions, for each share of Company stock subject to a stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) to which a holder of a share of Company stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled.
(vi) If, in the calendar year in which occurs the Date of Termination or in the immediately preceding calendar year, the Executive had relocated the Executive's primary residence from one location (the "Point of Origin") to its location at the Date of Termination at the request of the Company, then any relocation expenses that are actually incurred in the twelve-month period immediately following the Date of Termination by the Executive in moving the Executive's primary residence and personal property to any location shall be reimbursed by the Company, to the extent such expenses do not exceed the cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin, provided such expenses are substantiated by means of written receipts. The cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin shall be determined by averaging estimates obtained by the Company in writing from three reputable moving companies, selected by the Company in good faith. It shall be the obligation of the Executive to notify the Company in advance of any such relocation so that such estimates may be obtained.
The amounts required to be paid under this Section 6(d) shall be reduced by any other amount of severance (i.e., relating solely to salary or bonus continuation or actual or deemed pension or insurance continuation) received by the Executive upon such termination of employment under any severance plan, policy or arrangement of the Company applicable to the Executive or a group of employees of the Company, including the Executive, and applicable without regard to the occurrence of a Change in Control prior to such termination of employment.
7. . Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation or benefits earned by the Executive as the result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits.
No-Mitigation
8. . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
Non-exclusivity of Rights
 
9. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, except as provided in the last sentence of Section 6(d), shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur, including the costs and expenses of any arbitration proceeding, as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); that the Executive's claim is not determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or an arbitrator to be frivolous or otherwise entirely without merit.
Full Settlement
provided
10. . Upon fulfillment of the Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, the Executive fully and unconditionally releases and discharges all claims and causes of action which the Executive or his or her heirs, personal representatives, successors, or assigns ever had, now have, or hereafter may have against the Company and any of its affiliated companies on account of any claims and causes of action arising out of or relating to this Agreement, any other document relating hereto or delivered in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Release
11. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
(a) . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid, payable, distributed or distributable pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") (or any successor provision) or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to in this Agreement as the "Excise Tax"), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "GrossUp Payment") in an amount such that after the payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.
Gross-Up Payment Amount
-
(b) . Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-
Determinations
 
Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by an accounting firm of national standing reasonably selected by the Company (the "Accounting Firm"), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and the Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of written notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 11, shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within five business days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination and calculations. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive. As a result of the possible uncertainty in application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments will not have been made by the Company that should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 11(c) and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive.
(c) . The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim or audit by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, could reasonably require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
Internal Revenue Service Claim or Audit
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Executive,
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or
 
income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to the Executive, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled in his sole discretion to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
(d) . If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of such Section) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
Refunds
12. . Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this Agreement, to the extent the Company determines in good faith that (a) one or more of the payments or benefits received or to be received by the Executive pursuant to this Agreement in connection with the Executive's termination of employment would constitute deferred compensation subject to the rules of Section 409A of the Code, and (b) the Executive is a "specified employee" under Section 409A of the Code, then only to the extent required to avoid the Executive's incurrence of any additional tax or interest under Section 409A, such payment or benefit will be delayed until the earliest date following the Executive's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A which will permit the Executive to avoid such additional tax or interest. The Company and the Executive agree to negotiate in good faith to reform any provisions of this Agreement to maintain to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable provisions without violating the provisions of Section 409A, if the Company
Application of Section 409A
 
deems such reformation necessary or advisable pursuant to guidance under Section 409A to avoid the incurrence of any such interest and penalties. Such reformation shall not result in a reduction of the aggregate amount of payments or benefits under this Agreement.
13. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In addition, to the extent that the Executive is a party to any other agreement relating to confidential information, inventions or similar matters with the Company, the Executive shall continue to comply with the provisions of such agreements. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement.
Confidential Information
14. . The Executive shall consult with the Company before issuing any press release or otherwise making any public statement with respect to the Company or any of its affiliated companies, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Executive shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior written approval of the Company, except as may be required by applicable law, rule or regulation or any self regulatory agency requirements, in which event the Company shall have the right to review and comment upon any such press release or public statement prior to its issuance.
Public Announcements
15. . Excluding any action in furtherance of, or to enforce, the terms of this Agreement, the Executive agrees that he will not at any time in the future take any action detrimental to the Company, nor make any critical or disparaging statements about the Company, its services or products, past and present officers, directors or employees, unless such statements are made truthfully in response to a subpoena or other legal process. For a period of one year after the Date of Termination, the Executive shall not, on behalf of himself or any other person or entity, either directly or indirectly, solicit, or attempt to solicit anyone who now is, or subsequently becomes, an employee of or consultant to the Company or its affiliated entities to work for or provide business to any other person or entity or to terminate or diminish such person or entity's employment or consulting relationship with the Company.
Nondisparagement and Nonsolicitation
16. . This Agreement contains all of the terms agreed upon between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof between the Executive and the Company with respect to the matters contemplated in this Agreement (except for any understandings or agreements reflected in a separate non-competition, confidentiality, invention or other similar agreement or agreements between the Company and
Entire Agreement; Amendment
 
the Executive). Without limiting the effect of the foregoing, the Executive agrees that this Agreement satisfies any rights he may have had under any prior understanding or agreement between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matters described therein. The Executive and the Company agree that no term, provision or condition of this Agreement shall be held to be altered, amended, changed or waived in any respect except as evidenced by written agreement of the Executive and the Company.
17. .
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
(a) Except as provided in Section 17(d) below, Executive and the Company agree that to the extent permitted by law, any dispute or controversy arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, or the interpretation, validity, construction, performance, breach, or termination thereof will be settled by arbitration to be held at a location within 30 miles of the Company's principal executive offices in California, in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association (the "Rules"). The arbitrator may grant injunctions or other relief in such dispute or controversy. The decision of the arbitrator will be final, conclusive and binding on the parties to the arbitration. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's decision in any court having jurisdiction.
(b) The arbitrator will apply California law to the merits of any dispute or claim, without reference to rules of conflict of law. Executive hereby expressly consents to the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in California for any action or proceeding arising from or relating to this Agreement and/or relating to any arbitration in which the parties are participants.
(c) The Company will pay the direct costs and expenses of the arbitration. The Company and Executive each will separately pay its counsel fees and expenses; provided, however, the Company shall reimburse Executive for his reasonable costs (including without limitation attorneys' fees) incurred if Executive succeeds on the merits with respect to a material breach of this Agreement at any such arbitration, including enforcing any judgment entered on an arbitrator's decision.
(d) The Company may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or other interim or conservatory relief, as necessary to enforce the provisions of any other employment, incentive, compensation, stock option or other similar arrangement, without breach of this arbitration agreement and without abridgement of the powers of the arbitrator.
(e) Nothing contained in this Section 17 shall prevent the Executive and the Company from settling any dispute by mutual agreement at any time.
(f) EXECUTIVE HAS READ AND UNDERSTANDS SECTION 17, WHICH DISCUSSES ARBITRATION. EXECUTIVE UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE AGREES TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, TO SUBMIT ANY FUTURE CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION
 
WITH THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE, BREACH, OR TERMINATION THEREOF TO BINDING ARBITRATION, AND THAT THIS ARBITRATION CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALL ASPECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
18. .
Successors
(a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
(c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
19.
Miscellaneous
(a) Unless otherwise specified, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Sate of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
:
If to the Executive
[Name]
[Address]
 
:
If to the Company
Invitrogen Corporation
1600 Faraday Avenue
Carlsbad, CA 92008
(ATTN: General Counsel)
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision hereof in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any other provision thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set his or her hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
This CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("the Agreement") by and between INVITROGEN CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation (the "Company"), and [Name] (the "Executive"), dated as of the
    
th
Day of , 20.
            
    
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below).
WHEREAS, the Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of the Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change in Control and to encourage the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in Control, and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change in Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of the Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements contained in this Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Executive and the Company hereby agree as follows:
1.
Certain Definitions
(a) The "Effective Date" shall be the first date during the "Change in Control Period" (as defined in Section l(b)) on which a Change in Control occurs; provided that the Executive is employed on that date. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated or the Executive ceases to be an officer of the Company prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of the Change in Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer.
(b) The "Change in Control Period" is the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the second anniversary of such date, provided, however, that commencing on the date one year after the date hereof, and on each annual anniversary of such date (such date and each annual anniversary thereof is hereinafter referred to as the "Renewal Date"), the Change in Control Period shall be automatically extended so as to terminate two years from such Renewal Date, unless at least 60 days prior to the Renewal Date the Company shall give written notice to the Executive that the Change in Control Period shall not be so extended.
2. . For the purpose of this Agreement:
Change in Control
(a) a "Change in Control" shall mean:
(i) Any acquisition or series of acquisitions, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"), , that (A) any acquisition by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, (B) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (C) any acquisition or series of acquisitions which results in any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) acquiring beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and while such a beneficial owner such individual, entity or group does not exercise the voting power of his, her or its Outstanding Company Common Stock or otherwise exercise control with respect to any matter concerning or affecting the Company and promptly sells, transfers, assigns or otherwise disposes of that number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock necessary to reduce his, her or its beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of the Outstanding Company Common Stock to below 50%, as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control; or
provided, however
(ii) Individuals who as of April 27, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to April 27, 2001, whose election, or nomination for election, by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of the Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) relating to the election of directors of the Company; or
(iii) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company, in each case, with respect to which all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or
 
consolidation do not, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation.
3. . The Company hereby agrees to continue the Executive in its employ, and the Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending at the end of the 24th month following the Effective Date (the "Employment Period").
Employment Period
4.
Terms of Employment
(a) .
Position and Duties
(i) During the Employment Period, (A) the Executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities shall not be substantially diminished from the most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than 50 miles from such location.
(ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company.
(b) .
Compensation
(i) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary"), which shall be paid at a monthly rate, at least equal to the highest annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) base salary paid or payable to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies in respect of the three years immediately
Base Salary
 
preceding the Effective Date. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in base salary generally awarded in the ordinary course of business to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to the Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliated companies" includes any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company.
(ii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary, the Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year during the Employment Period, an annual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") in cash at least equal to the higher of either (A) the average annualized (for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) Incentive Compensation Plan bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three fiscal years or lesser number of fiscal years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs, or (B) in the event the annual bonus under an Incentive Compensation Plan is paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangement, in respect of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs was based upon a formula, guaranteed amount, or plan in which the Executive participated, then such Annual Bonus shall be at least equal to the bonus which would be payable based on such formula, guaranteed amount, or plan had the Executive's participation therein and level of participation remained in effect following the Effective Date. Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the end of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless the Executive shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual Bonus.
Annual Bonus
(iii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus payable as hereinabove provided, the Executive shall be entitled to participate during the Employment Period in all incentive (including but not limited to long-term incentive bonus), savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with incentive opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special incentive opportunities), savings opportunities and retirement benefits opportunities, in each case, less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies for the Executive under such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans
(iv) . During the Employment Period, the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided
Welfare Benefit Plans
 
by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide benefits which are less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of such plans, practices, policies and programs in effect for the Executive and/or the Executive's family at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
(v) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable business expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Business Expenses
(vi) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Fringe Benefits
(vii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as provided at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Office and Support Staff
(viii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies as in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Vacation
5.
Termination of Employment
(a) The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability (as defined below) of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period, it may give to the Executive written notice in accordance with Section 18(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the
Death or Disability.
 
Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative (such agreement as to acceptability not to be withheld unreasonably).
(b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period for "Cause" only in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
Cause
(i) For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means (A) repeated violations by the Executive of the Executive's material responsibilities and material duties under Section 4(a) of this Agreement which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive's part and which are not remedied in a reasonable period of time after receipt of written notice from the Company, (B) commission of an intentional act of fraud, embezzlement or theft by the Executive in connection with the Executive's duties or in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company or its affiliated companies, (C) violation of any law, regulation, or rule applicable to the Company's business or reputation, including, without limitation securities laws, (D) causing intentional wrongful damage to property of the Company or its affiliated companies, (E) intentionally and wrongfully disclosing secret processes or confidential information of the Company or its affiliated companies, (F) conviction of, or plea of to, a felony, which conviction or plea materially harms the business or reputation of the Company, or (G) participating, without the Company's express written consent, in the management of any business enterprise which engages in substantial and direct competition with the Company or its affiliated companies, provided that in the case of clauses (A) through (F), any such act or omission shall have been materially harmful to the Company or its affiliated companies.
nolo contendere
(ii) The Company may not terminate the Executive's employment for Cause under clause (C), (D), or (E) of such definition set forth above unless: (a) the Company provides the Executive with written notice of its intent to terminate the Executive's employment for Cause, including a detailed description of the specific reasons which form the basis for such consideration; (b) within thirty (30) days after the date such notice is provided, the Executive shall have a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board, with or without legal representation, at the Executive's election and at the Executive's expense, to present arguments and evidence on his own behalf to defend such act or acts, or failure to act, and, if, as determined by the Board, such act or failure to act is correctable, the Executive shall be given thirty (30) days after such meeting to correct such act or failure to act; and (c) following presentation to the Board as provided in clause (b) above or the Executive's failure to appear before the Board at a date and time specified in the notice and, following expiration of the thirty (30) day period in which to correct such acts or failures to act that the Board has determined are correctable, the Executive may be terminated for Cause only if (1) the Board, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its members (excluding the Executive and any other member of the Board reasonably believed
 
by the Board to be involved in the events leading the Board to terminate the Executive for Cause), determines that the acts or failures to act of the Executive specified in the notice occurred and remained uncorrected, and the Executive's employment should accordingly be terminated for Cause; and (2) the Board provides the Executive with a written determination setting forth in specific detail the basis of such termination of employment which are consistent with the reasons set forth in the notice.
(c) . The Executive's employment may be terminated during the Employment Period by the Executive for "Good Reason." For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means
Good Reason
(i) a substantial diminution in the Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 4(a) of this Agreement, excluding non-substantial changes in title or office, and excluding any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
(ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4(b) of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
(iii) the Company requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location other than that described in Section 4(a)(i)(B) hereof or, requiring the Executive to travel away from his or her office in the course of discharging responsibilities or duties which is significantly more frequent (in terms of either consecutive days or aggregate days in any calendar year) than was required prior to the Change in Control;
(iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or
(v) any failure by any successor to the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 17(c) of this Agreement, provided that such successor has received at least ten (10) days prior written notice from the Company or the Executive of the requirements of Section 17(c) of this Agreement.
For the purposes of this Section 5(c), any good faith determination of "Good Reason" made by the Executive shall be conclusive.
(d) . Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason shall be communicated by "Notice of Termination" to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 18(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the
Notice of Termination
 
Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than fifteen days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause, as the case may be, shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
(e) . "Date of Termination" means the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be; provided, however, that (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination and (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
6.
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
(a) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than the following obligations: (i) payment of the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) payment of the product of (x) the Annual Bonus and any long-term incentive bonus paid, guaranteed to be paid, or payable but for any deferral (and annualized for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or for which the Executive has been employed for less than twelve full months) to the Executive for the most recently completed fiscal year during the Employment Period, and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, (iii) payment of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together with any accrued interest thereon) and not yet paid by the Company and any accrued vacation pay not yet paid by the Company, (iv) payment of any earned or guaranteed Annual Bonus, long-term incentive bonus or other incentive compensation payments attributable to prior fiscal years to the extent not theretofore paid, and (v) payment for any substantiated business and relocation expenses incurred by the Executive to the extent not theretofore reimbursed (the amounts described in clauses (i) through (v) above are hereafter referred to as "Accrued Obligations"). All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive's family shall be entitled to receive benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided generally by the Company and any of its affiliated companies to surviving families of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to family death benefits, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family as in effect on the date of the Executive's death generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Death
 
(b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled peer executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as in effect at any time thereafter through the Date of Termination generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Disability
(c) . If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay to the Executive the Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination plus the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If the Executive terminates employment during the Employment Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination.
Cause
(d) . If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause or Disability, or the Executive shall terminate employment under this Agreement for Good Reason:
Good Reason or Termination Without Cause
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive the aggregate of the following amounts, such amounts to be payable by the Company in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of termination.
A. All Accrued Obligations; and
B. times the sum of the Executive's Annual Base Salary and the higher of either (i) the average annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three years or lesser number of years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the Effective Date, or (ii) the targeted annual bonus payable to the Executive pursuant to the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (assuming 100% achievement of the Company performance factor and 100% achievement of the Executive's personal performance factor); and
2.0
 
C. Any guaranteed or targeted long-term incentive bonus that would have been payable within two years of the Date of Termination; and
D. An amount equal to that portion, if any, of the Company's contribution to the Executive's 401(k), savings or other similar individual account plan which is not vested as of the Date of Termination (the "Unvested Company Contribution"), plus an amount which when added to the Unvested Company Contribution would be sufficient after Federal, state and local income taxes (based on the tax returns filed by the Executive most recently prior to the Date of Termination) to enable the Executive to net an amount equal to the Unvested Company Contribution; and
(ii) the Company shall pay the Executive up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services utilized by the Executive upon the receipt by the Company of written receipts or other appropriate documentation; and
(iii) for the remainder of the Employment Period, or such longer period as any plan, program, practice or policy may provide, the Company shall continue benefits at the Company's expense to the Executive and, where applicable, the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not been terminated in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs or policies of the Company and its affiliated companies generally applicable to other peer executives and their families during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families; provided, however, that if the Executive becomes employed elsewhere during the Employment Period and is thereby afforded comparable insurance and welfare benefits to those described in Section 4(b)(iv), the Company's obligation to continue providing the Executive with such benefits shall cease or be correspondingly reduced, as the case may be. For purposes of determining eligibility of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until the end of the Employment Period and to have retired on the last day of such period; and
(iv) All outstanding stock options, shares of restricted stock and other equity based awards held by the Executive pursuant to any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement or other agreement shall immediately become vested and exercisable as to all or any part of the shares covered thereby, with the Executive being able to exercise his stock options within a period of twelve months following the Date of Termination or such longer period as may be permitted under Executive's stock option agreements; and
(v) The Company shall make its best efforts to require the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or parent corporation thereof, as the
 
case may be (the "Acquiring Corporation"), to either assume the Company's rights and obligations under any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement or substitute for outstanding options or restricted shares substantially equivalent options or restricted shares of the Acquiring Corporation's stock. For this purpose, a stock option or restricted share shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the stock option or restricted share confers the right to receive in accordance with its terms and conditions, for each share of Company stock subject to a stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) to which a holder of a share of Company stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled.
(vi) If, in the calendar year in which occurs the Date of Termination or in the immediately preceding calendar year, the Executive had relocated the Executive's primary residence from one location (the "Point of Origin") to its location at the Date of Termination at the request of the Company, then any relocation expenses that are actually incurred in the twelve-month period immediately following the Date of Termination by the Executive in moving the Executive's primary residence and personal property to any location shall be reimbursed by the Company, to the extent such expenses do not exceed the cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin, provided such expenses are substantiated by means of written receipts. The cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin shall be determined by averaging estimates obtained by the Company in writing from three reputable moving companies, selected by the Company in good faith. It shall be the obligation of the Executive to notify the Company in advance of any such relocation so that such estimates may be obtained.
The amounts required to be paid under this Section 6(d) shall be reduced by any other amount of severance (i.e., relating solely to salary or bonus continuation or actual or deemed pension or insurance continuation) received by the Executive upon such termination of employment under any severance plan, policy or arrangement of the Company applicable to the Executive or a group of employees of the Company, including the Executive, and applicable without regard to the occurrence of a Change in Control prior to such termination of employment.
7. . Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation or benefits earned by the Executive as the result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits.
No-Mitigation
8. . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
Non-exclusivity of Rights
 
9. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, except as provided in the last sentence of Section 6(d), shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur, including the costs and expenses of any arbitration proceeding, as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); that the Executive's claim is not determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or an arbitrator to be frivolous or otherwise entirely without merit.
Full Settlement
provided
10. . Upon fulfillment of the Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, the Executive fully and unconditionally releases and discharges all claims and causes of action which the Executive or his or her heirs, personal representatives, successors, or assigns ever had, now have, or hereafter may have against the Company and any of its affiliated companies on account of any claims and causes of action arising out of or relating to this Agreement, any other document relating hereto or delivered in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Release
11. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
(a) . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid, payable, distributed or distributable pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") (or any successor provision) or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to in this Agreement as the "Excise Tax"), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "GrossUp Payment") in an amount such that after the payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.
Gross-Up Payment Amount
-
(b) . Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-
Determinations
 
Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by an accounting firm of national standing reasonably selected by the Company (the "Accounting Firm"), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and the Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of written notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 11, shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within five business days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination and calculations. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive. As a result of the possible uncertainty in application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments will not have been made by the Company that should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 11(c) and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive.
(c) . The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim or audit by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, could reasonably require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
Internal Revenue Service Claim or Audit
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Executive,
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or
 
income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to the Executive, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled in his sole discretion to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
(d) . If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of such Section) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
Refunds
12. . Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this Agreement, to the extent the Company determines in good faith that (a) one or more of the payments or benefits received or to be received by the Executive pursuant to this Agreement in connection with the Executive's termination of employment would constitute deferred compensation subject to the rules of Section 409A of the Code, and (b) the Executive is a "specified employee" under Section 409A of the Code, then only to the extent required to avoid the Executive's incurrence of any additional tax or interest under Section 409A, such payment or benefit will be delayed until the earliest date following the Executive's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A which will permit the Executive to avoid such additional tax or interest. The Company and the Executive agree to negotiate in good faith to reform any provisions of this Agreement to maintain to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable provisions without violating the provisions of Section 409A, if the Company
Application of Section 409A
 
deems such reformation necessary or advisable pursuant to guidance under Section 409A to avoid the incurrence of any such interest and penalties. Such reformation shall not result in a reduction of the aggregate amount of payments or benefits under this Agreement.
13. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In addition, to the extent that the Executive is a party to any other agreement relating to confidential information, inventions or similar matters with the Company, the Executive shall continue to comply with the provisions of such agreements. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement.
Confidential Information
14. . The Executive shall consult with the Company before issuing any press release or otherwise making any public statement with respect to the Company or any of its affiliated companies, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Executive shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior written approval of the Company, except as may be required by applicable law, rule or regulation or any self regulatory agency requirements, in which event the Company shall have the right to review and comment upon any such press release or public statement prior to its issuance.
Public Announcements
15. . This Agreement contains all of the terms agreed upon between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof between the Executive and the Company with respect to the matters contemplated in this Agreement (except for any understandings or agreements reflected in a separate non-competition, confidentiality, invention or other similar agreement or agreements between the Company and the Executive). Without limiting the effect of the foregoing, the Executive agrees that this Agreement satisfies any rights he may have had under any prior understanding or agreement between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matters described therein. The Executive and the Company agree that no term, provision or condition of this Agreement shall be held to be altered, amended, changed or waived in any respect except as evidenced by written agreement of the Executive and the Company.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
16. .
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
(a) Except as provided in Section 16(d) below, Executive and the Company agree that to the extent permitted by law, any dispute or controversy arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, or the interpretation, validity, construction, performance, breach,
 
or termination thereof will be settled by arbitration to be held at a location within 30 miles of the Company's principal executive offices in California, in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association (the "Rules"). The arbitrator may grant injunctions or other relief in such dispute or controversy. The decision of the arbitrator will be final, conclusive and binding on the parties to the arbitration. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's decision in any court having jurisdiction.
(b) The arbitrator will apply California law to the merits of any dispute or claim, without reference to rules of conflict of law. Executive hereby expressly consents to the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in California for any action or proceeding arising from or relating to this Agreement and/or relating to any arbitration in which the parties are participants.
(c) The Company will pay the direct costs and expenses of the arbitration. The Company and Executive each will separately pay its counsel fees and expenses; provided, however, the Company shall reimburse Executive for his reasonable costs (including without limitation attorneys' fees) incurred if Executive succeeds on the merits with respect to a material breach of this Agreement at any such arbitration, including enforcing any judgment entered on an arbitrator's decision.
(d) The Company may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or other interim or conservatory relief, as necessary to enforce the provisions of any other employment, incentive, compensation, stock option or other similar arrangement, without breach of this arbitration agreement and without abridgement of the powers of the arbitrator.
(e) Nothing contained in this Section 16 shall prevent the Executive and the Company from settling any dispute by mutual agreement at any time.
(f) EXECUTIVE HAS READ AND UNDERSTANDS SECTION 16, WHICH DISCUSSES ARBITRATION. EXECUTIVE UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE AGREES TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, TO SUBMIT ANY FUTURE CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE, BREACH, OR TERMINATION THEREOF TO BINDING ARBITRATION, AND THAT THIS ARBITRATION CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALL ASPECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
17. .
Successors
(a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
 
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
(c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
18.
Miscellaneous
(a) Unless otherwise specified, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Sate of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
:
If to the Executive
[Name]
[Address]
:
If to the Company
Invitrogen Corporation
1600 Faraday Avenue
Carlsbad, CA 92008
(ATTN: General Counsel)
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
 
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision hereof in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any other provision thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set his or her hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
AGREEMENT by and between INVITROGEN CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation (the "Company"), and Gregory T. Lucier (the "Executive"), dated as of the 28th day of February 2007.
The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below). The Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of the Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change in Control and to encourage the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in Control, and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change in Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of the Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations. Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Board has caused the Company to enter into this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1.
Certain Definitions
(a) The "Effective Date" shall be the first date during the "Change in Control Period" (as defined in Section l(b)) on which a Change in Control occurs; provided that the Executive is employed on that date. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated or the Executive ceases to be an officer of the Company prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of the Change in Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer.
(b) The "Change in Control Period" is the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the second anniversary of such date, provided, however, that commencing on the date one year after the date hereof, and on each annual anniversary of such date (such date and each annual anniversary thereof is hereinafter referred to as the "Renewal Date"), the Change in Control Period shall be automatically extended so as to terminate two years from such Renewal Date, unless at least 60 days prior to the Renewal Date the Company shall give written notice to the Executive that the Change in Control Period shall not be so extended.
2. . For the purpose of this Agreement:
Change in Control
(a) a "Change in Control" shall mean:
(i) Any acquisition or series of acquisitions, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"), , that (A) any acquisition by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, (B) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (C) any acquisition or series of acquisitions which results in any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) acquiring beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and while such a beneficial owner such individual, entity or group does not exercise the voting power of his, her or its Outstanding Company Common Stock or otherwise exercise control with respect to any matter concerning or affecting the Company and promptly sells, transfers, assigns or otherwise disposes of that number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock necessary to reduce his, her or its beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of the Outstanding Company Common Stock to below 50%, as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control; or
provided, however
(ii) Individuals who as of April 27, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to April 27, 2001, whose election, or nomination for election, by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of the Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) relating to the election of directors of the Company; or
(iii) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company, in each case, with respect to which all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation.
 
3. . The Company hereby agrees to continue the Executive in its employ, and the Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending at the end of the 24th month following the Effective Date (the "Employment Period").
Employment Period
4.
Terms of Employment
(a) .
Position and Duties
(i) During the Employment Period, (A) the Executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities shall not be substantially diminished from the most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than 50 miles from such location.
(ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company.
(b) .
Compensation
(i) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary"), which shall be paid at a monthly rate, at least equal to the highest annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) base salary paid or payable to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies in respect of the three years immediately preceding the Effective Date. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in base salary generally awarded in the ordinary course of
Base Salary
 
business to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to the Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliated companies" includes any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company.
(ii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary, the Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year during the Employment Period, an annual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") in cash at least equal to the higher of either (A) the average annualized (for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) Incentive Compensation Plan bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three fiscal years or lesser number of fiscal years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs, or (B) in the event the annual bonus under an Incentive Compensation Plan is paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangement, in respect of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs was based upon a formula, guaranteed amount, or plan in which the Executive participated, then such Annual Bonus shall be at least equal to the bonus which would be payable based on such formula, guaranteed amount, or plan had the Executive's participation therein and level of participation remained in effect following the Effective Date. For purposes of this agreement, the calculation of the Annual Bonus shall not include any payments under a Long Term Incentive Plan or the Signing Bonus defined in the Employment Agreement entered into between the Executive and the Company effective as of May 26, 2003 (the "Employment Agreement"). Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the end of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless the Executive shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual Bonus.
Annual Bonus
(iii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus payable as hereinabove provided, the Executive shall be entitled to participate during the Employment Period in all incentive (including but not limited to long-term incentive bonus), savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with incentive opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special incentive opportunities), savings opportunities and retirement benefits opportunities, in each case, less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies for the Executive under such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans
(iv) . During the Employment Period, the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided
Welfare Benefit Plans
 
by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies, but in no event shall such plans, practices, policies and programs provide benefits which are less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of such plans, practices, policies and programs in effect for the Executive and/or the Executive's family at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.
(v) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable business expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Business Expenses
(vi) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company and its affiliated companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Fringe Benefits
(vii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as provided at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Office and Support Staff
(viii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies as in effect for the Executive at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Vacation
5.
Termination of Employment
(a) The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability (as defined below) of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period, it may give to the Executive written notice in accordance with Section 18(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the
Death or Disability.
 
Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative (such agreement as to acceptability not to be withheld unreasonably).
(b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period for "Cause" only in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
Cause
(i) For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means (A) repeated violations by the Executive of the Executive's material responsibilities and material duties under Section 4(a) of this Agreement which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive's part and which are not remedied in a reasonable period of time after receipt of written notice from the Company, (B) commission of an intentional act of fraud, embezzlement or theft by the Executive in connection with the Executive's duties or in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company or its affiliated companies, (C) violation of any law, regulation, or rule applicable to the Company's business or reputation, including, without limitation securities laws, (D) causing intentional wrongful damage to property of the Company or its affiliated companies, (E) intentionally and wrongfully disclosing secret processes or confidential information of the Company or its affiliated companies, (F) conviction of, or plea of to, a felony, which conviction or plea materially harms the business or reputation of the Company, or (G) participating, without the Company's express written consent, in the management of any business enterprise which engages in substantial and direct competition with the Company or its affiliated companies, provided that in the case of clauses (A) through (F), any such act or omission shall have been materially harmful to the Company or its affiliated companies. For purposes of this definition, no act or failure to act shall be deemed "willful" unless effected by the Executive not in good faith and without a reasonable belief that such action or failure to act was in or not opposed to the Company's best interests.
nolo contendere
(ii) The Company may not terminate the Executive's employment for Cause under clause (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of such definition set forth above unless: (a) the Company provides the Executive with written notice of its intent to consider termination of the Executive's employment for Cause, including a detailed description of the specific reasons which form the basis for such consideration; (b) within thirty (30) days after the date such notice is provided, the Executive shall have a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board of Directors, with or without legal representation, at the Executive's election, to present arguments and evidence on his own behalf to defend such act or acts, or failure to act, and, if such act or failure to act is correctable, the Executive shall be given thirty (30) days after such meeting to correct such act or failure to act; and (c) following presentation to the Board of Directors as provided in clause (b) above or the Executive's failure to appear before the Board of Directors at a date and time specified in the notice and, following expiration of the thirty (30) -day period in
 
which to correct such acts or failures to act that are correctable, the Executive may be terminated for Cause only if (1) the Board of Directors, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its members (excluding the Executive and any other member of the Board of Directors reasonably believed by the Board of Directors to be involved in the events leading the Board of Directors to terminate the Executive for Cause), determines that the acts or failures to act of the Executive specified in the notice occurred and remained uncorrected, and the Executive's employment should accordingly be terminated for Cause; and (2) the Board of Directors provides the Executive with a written determination setting forth in specific detail the basis of such termination of employment which are consistent with the reasons set forth in the notice.
(c) . The Executive's employment may be terminated during the Employment Period by the Executive for "Good Reason." For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means
Good Reason
(i) a substantial diminution in the Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 4(a) of this Agreement, excluding non-substantial changes in title or office, and excluding any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
(ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4(b) of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
(iii) the Company requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location other than that described in Section 4(a)(i)(B) hereof or, requiring the Executive to travel away from his or her office in the course of discharging responsibilities or duties which is significantly more frequent (in terms of either consecutive days or aggregate days in any calendar year) than was required prior to the Change in Control;
(iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or
(v) any failure by any successor to the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 17(c) of this Agreement, provided that such successor has received at least ten (10) days prior written notice from the Company or the Executive of the requirements of Section 17(c) of this Agreement.
For the purposes of this Section 5(c), any good faith determination of "Good Reason" made by the Executive shall be conclusive.
(d) . Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason shall be communicated by "Notice of Termination" to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 18(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this
Notice of Termination
 
Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than fifteen days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause, as the case may be, shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
(e) . "Date of Termination" means the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be; provided, however, that (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination and (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
6.
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
(a) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than the following obligations: (i) payment of the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (ii) payment of the product of (x) the Annual Bonus and any long-term incentive bonus paid, guaranteed to be paid, or payable but for any deferral (and annualized for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or for which the Executive has been employed for less than twelve full months) to the Executive for the most recently completed fiscal year during the Employment Period, and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, (iii) payment of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together with any accrued interest thereon) and not yet paid by the Company and any accrued vacation pay not yet paid by the Company, (iv) payment of any earned or guaranteed Annual Bonus, long-term incentive bonus or other incentive compensation payments attributable to prior fiscal years to the extent not theretofore paid, and (v) payment for any substantiated business and relocation expenses incurred by the Executive to the extent not theretofore reimbursed (the amounts described in clauses (i) through (v) above are hereafter referred to as "Accrued Obligations"). All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive's family shall be entitled to receive benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided generally by the Company and any of its affiliated companies to surviving families of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to family death benefits, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the
Death
 
Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family as in effect on the date of the Executive's death generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
(b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled peer executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as in effect at any time thereafter through the Date of Termination generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Disability
(c) . If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay to the Executive the Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination plus the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If the Executive terminates employment during the Employment Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination.
Cause
(d) . If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause or Disability, or the Executive shall terminate employment under this Agreement for Good Reason:
Good Reason or Termination Without Cause
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive the aggregate of the following amounts, such amounts to be payable by the Company in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of termination.
A. All Accrued Obligations; and
B. times the sum of the Executive's Annual Base Salary and the higher of either (i) the average annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve full months) bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three years or lesser number of years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the
2.0
 
Effective Date, or (ii) the targeted annual bonus payable to the Executive pursuant to the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (assuming 100% achievement of the Company performance factor and 100% achievement of the Executive's personal performance factor); and
C. Any guaranteed or targeted Long Term Incentive Plan award that would have been payable within two years of the Date of Termination; and
D. An amount equal to that portion, if any, of the Company's contribution to the Executive's 401(k), savings or other similar individual account plan which is not vested as of the Date of Termination (the "Unvested Company Contribution"), plus an amount which when added to the Unvested Company Contribution would be sufficient after Federal, state and local income taxes (based on the tax returns filed by the Executive most recently prior to the Date of Termination) to enable the Executive to net an amount equal to the Unvested Company Contribution; and
(ii) the Company shall pay the Executive up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services utilized by the Executive upon the receipt by the Company of written receipts or other appropriate documentation; and
(iii) for the remainder of the Employment Period, or such longer period as any plan, program, practice or policy may provide, the Company shall continue benefits at the Company's expense to the Executive and, where applicable, the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not been terminated in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs or policies of the Company and its affiliated companies generally applicable to other peer executives and their families during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families; provided, however, that if the Executive becomes employed elsewhere during the Employment Period and is thereby afforded comparable insurance and welfare benefits to those described in Section 4(b)(iv), the Company's obligation to continue providing the Executive with such benefits shall cease or be correspondingly reduced, as the case may be. For purposes of determining eligibility of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until the end of the Employment Period and to have retired on the last day of such period; and
(iv) Unless otherwise stated in the applicable Notice of Grant, all outstanding stock options, shares of restricted stock and other equity based awards held by the Executive pursuant to any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement or other agreement shall immediately become vested and exercisable as to all or any part of the shares covered thereby, with the Executive being able to exercise his stock options within a period of eighteen months following the Date of Termination or such longer period as may be permitted under Executive's stock option agreements; and
 
(v) The Company shall require the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or parent corporation thereof, as the case may be (the "Acquiring Corporation"), to either assume the Company's rights and obligations under any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement or substitute for outstanding options or restricted shares substantially equivalent options or restricted shares of the Acquiring Corporation's stock, unless otherwise stated in the applicable notice of grant. For this purpose, a stock option or restricted share shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the stock option or restricted share confers the right to receive in accordance with its terms and conditions, for each share of Company stock subject to a stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) to which a holder of a share of Company stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled.
(vi) If, in the calendar year in which occurs the Date of Termination or in the immediately preceding calendar year, the Executive had relocated the Executive's primary residence from one location (the "Point of Origin") to its location at the Date of Termination at the request of the Company, then any relocation expenses that are actually incurred in the twelve-month period immediately following the Date of Termination by the Executive in moving the Executive's primary residence and personal property to any location shall be reimbursed by the Company, on a tax-neutral basis, to the extent such expenses do not exceed the cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin, provided such expenses are substantiated by means of written receipts. The cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin shall be determined by averaging estimates obtained by the Company in writing from three reputable moving companies, selected by the Company in good faith. It shall be the obligation of the Executive to notify the Company in advance of any such relocation so that such estimates may be obtained.
The amounts required to be paid under this Section 6(d) shall be reduced by any other amount of severance (i.e., relating solely to salary or bonus continuation or actual or deemed pension or insurance continuation) received by the Executive upon such termination of employment under any severance plan, policy or arrangement of the Company applicable to the Executive or a group of employees of the Company, including the Executive, and applicable without regard to the occurrence of a Change in Control prior to such termination of employment. The amounts payable to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement shall be determined without giving effect to any decrease in compensation or benefits that is in violation of the terms of this Agreement. The amounts payable to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement will not be subject to any requirement of mitigation, nor, except as specifically set forth herein, will they be offset or otherwise reduced by reason of the Executive's receipt of compensation from any source other than the Company.
7. . Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation or benefits earned by the Executive as the result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits.
No-Mitigation
 
. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
8. Non-exclusivity of Rights
9. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, except as provided in the last sentence of Section 6(d), shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur, including the costs and expenses of any arbitration proceeding, as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); that the Executive's claim is not determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or an arbitrator to be frivolous or otherwise entirely without merit.
Full Settlement
provided
10. . Upon fulfillment of the Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, the parties shall enter into a mutual release that shall include the provisions set forth in Exhibit D to the Employment Agreement and such other terms that are agreed upon by the Company and the Executive at such time.
Release
11. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
(a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid, payable, distributed or distributable pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") (or any successor provision) or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax,
Gross-Up Payment Amount.
 
together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to in this Agreement as the "Excise Tax"), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "GrossUp Payment") in an amount such that after the payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.
-
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by an accounting firm of national standing reasonably selected by the Company (the "Accounting Firm"), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and the Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of written notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 11, shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within five days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive. As a result of the possible uncertainty in application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments will not have been made by the Company that should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 11(c) and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive.
Determinations.
(c) . The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
IRS Claims
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Executive,
 
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to the Executive, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled in his sole discretion to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
(d) If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of such Section) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c), a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
Refunds.
12. . Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this Agreement, to the extent the Company determines in good faith that (a) one or more of the payments or benefits received or to be received by the Executive pursuant to this Agreement in connection with the Executive's termination of employment would constitute deferred compensation subject to the rules of Section 409A of the Code, and (b) the Executive is a "specified employee" under Section 409A of the Code, then only to the extent required to avoid
Application of Section 409A
 
the Executive's incurrence of any additional tax or interest under Section 409A, such payment or benefit will be delayed until the earliest date following the Executive's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A which will permit the Executive to avoid such additional tax or interest. The Company and the Executive agree to negotiate in good faith to reform any provisions of this Agreement to maintain to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable provisions without violating the provisions of Section 409A, if the Company deems such reformation necessary or advisable pursuant to guidance under Section 409A to avoid the incurrence of any such interest and penalties. Such reformation shall not result in a reduction of the aggregate amount of payments or benefits under this Agreement.
13. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In addition, to the extent that the Executive is a party to any other agreement relating to confidential information, inventions or similar matters with the Company, the Executive shall continue to comply with the provisions of such agreements. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement.
Confidential Information
14. . The Executive shall consult with the Company before issuing any press release or otherwise making any public statement regarding this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Executive shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior written approval of the Company, except as may be required by applicable law, rule or regulation or any self regulatory agency requirements, in which event the Company shall have the right to review and comment upon any such press release or public statement prior to its issuance.
Public Announcements
15. . This Agreement contains all of the terms agreed upon between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof between the Executive and the Company with respect to the matters contemplated in this Agreement (except for any understandings or agreements reflected in a separate non-competition, confidentiality, invention or other similar agreement or agreements between the Company and the Executive). Without limiting the effect of the foregoing, the Executive agrees that this Agreement satisfies any rights he may have had under any prior understanding or agreement between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matters described therein. The Executive and the Company agree that no term, provision or condition of this Agreement shall be held to be altered, amended, changed or waived in any respect except as evidenced by written agreement of the Executive and the Company.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
 
.
16. Arbitration and Equitable Relief
(a) Except as provided in Section 16(d) below, Executive and the Company agree that to the extent permitted by law, any dispute or controversy arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, or the interpretation, validity, construction, performance, breach, or termination thereof will be settled by arbitration to be held at a location within 30 miles of the Company's principal executive offices in California, in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association (the "Rules"). The arbitrator may grant injunctions or other relief in such dispute or controversy. The decision of the arbitrator will be final, conclusive and binding on the parties to the arbitration. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's decision in any court having jurisdiction.
(b) The arbitrator will apply California law to the merits of any dispute or claim, without reference to rules of conflict of law. Executive hereby expressly consents to the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in California for any action or proceeding arising from or relating to this Agreement and/or relating to any arbitration in which the parties are participants.
(c) The Company will pay the direct costs and expenses of the arbitration. The Company and Executive each will separately pay its counsel fees and expenses; provided, however, the Company shall reimburse Executive for his reasonable costs (including without limitation attorneys' fees) incurred if Executive succeeds on the merits with respect to a material breach of this Agreement at any such arbitration, including enforcing any judgment entered on an arbitrator's decision.
(d) The Company may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or other interim or conservatory relief, as necessary to enforce the provisions of the New Hire Documents, without breach of this arbitration agreement and without abridgement of the powers of the arbitrator.
(e) Nothing contained in this Section 16 shall prevent the Executive and the Company from settling any dispute by mutual agreement at any time.
(f) EXECUTIVE HAS READ AND UNDERSTANDS SECTION 16, WHICH DISCUSSES ARBITRATION. EXECUTIVE UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE AGREES TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, TO SUBMIT ANY FUTURE CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE, BREACH, OR TERMINATION THEREOF TO BINDING ARBITRATION, AND THAT THIS ARBITRATION CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALL ASPECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
 
17. .
Successors
(a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
(c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
18.
Miscellaneous
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Sate of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
 
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision hereof in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any other provision thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set his or her hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.4
[[Name]] (the ) has been granted an award (the ) pursuant to the Invitrogen Corporation 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the ) consisting of one or more rights (each such right being hereinafter referred to as a ) to receive in settlement of each such right one (1) share of Stock of Invitrogen Corporation, as follows:
"
Participant
"
"
Award
"
"
Plan
"
"
Performance Share
"
1. .
General Terms
 
2. . Except as otherwise provided in section 4 hereof, for each respective Tranche of Performance Shares to vest, all three of the following conditions must be met:
Vesting
a. A Trigger Day for the Tranche must occur;
b. During the period that includes the Trigger Day and the immediately following 19 Trading Days, the arithmetic mean of the Closing Prices during the period must be at or above the Target Price for such Tranche; and
c. The Participant must be in continuous Service to the Company through [[Date]].
3. . Any Performance Shares that have not vested by [[Date]], shall expire.
Expiration of Performance Shares
4. .
Partial Acceleration
a. . If the Participant's service to the Company terminates as a result of (i) death, (ii) Disability, (iii) involuntary termination of Service by the Company that is not for Cause, or (iv) termination of Service by the Participant for Good Reason, then any Performance Shares that at the date of such termination were not vested pursuant to Section 2 hereof solely because the termination of Service occurred before [[Date]], shall accelerate and vest on the termination date. All other Performance Shares shall expire on such date.
Partial Acceleration upon Death, Disability, or Not-for-Cause Termination
 
b. . If, when the Company is a solvent, going concern, the Company enters into a transaction as a result of which the Company's stock is no longer traded on a public stock exchange or public stock market (a ""), then all Performance Shares the Target Price of which is at or below the price paid for the Company's stock by the purchaser(s) in the Transaction shall accelerate and vest at the closing of the Transaction. All other Performance Shares shall expire at such closing.
Partial Acceleration  Going Private Transaction
Transaction
c. . None of the Performance Shares shall accelerate, and all of the Performance Shares shall expire, upon the Participant's voluntary termination of Service (other than for Good Reason) or the Company's involuntary termination of the Participant's Service for Cause prior to [[Date]] or prior to the closing of a Transaction described in Section 4(b) hereof.
No Acceleration
5. :
Definitions
a. The term "" means [[Definition of "Cause" consistent with Participant's Employment Agreement or Change-in-Control Agreement.]]
Cause
b. The term "" shall mean the Change-in-Control Agreement between the Participant and the Company.
Change-in-Control Agreement
c. The term "" shall mean means [[Definition of "Change in Control" consistent with Participant's Change-in-Control Agreement.]]
Change in Control
d. "" means the closing price on a specific day of the Company's common stock as traded on the Market.
Closing Price
e. "" means Invitrogen Corporation and any successor to its business and/or assets that assumes and agrees to perform the PSA Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
Company
f. "" means the absence of the Participant from the Participant's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Participant or the Participant's legal representative (such agreement as to acceptability not to be withheld unreasonably).
Disability
g. "" means [[Definition of "Good Reason" consistent with Participant's Change-in-Control Agreement.]]
Good Reason
h. "" means the Nasdaq Global Select Market or, if different, the primary stock market on which the Company's common stock is traded.
Market
i. "" means the price listed below, in the definition of "Tranche," for each respective Tranche; , that appropriate and proportionate adjustments shall be made
Target Price
provided
 
in the Target Price in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, of shares of Stock, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights under this grant. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company."
j. "" means any day between the Date of Grant and [[Date]], that the Market is open.
Trading Day
k. "" means any one of the following 6 portions into which the grant is divided:
Tranche
 
l. "" means any Trading Day on which the Closing Price is at or above the Target Price for the respective Tranche.
Trigger Day
By their signatures below, the Company and the Participant agree that the Award is governed by this Notice and by the provisions of the Plan and the PSA Agreement attached to and made a part of this document. The Participant acknowledges receipt of copies of the Plan and PSA Agreement, represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with its provisions, and hereby accepts the Award subject to all of its terms and conditions.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.5
Invitrogen Corporation has granted to the individual (the ) named in the (the ) to which this Performance Share Award Agreement (the ) is attached an award (the ) of Performance Shares upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Notice and this Agreement. The Award has been granted pursuant to and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the Invitrogen Corporation 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), as amended to the Date of Grant. By signing the Notice, the Participant: (a) represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with the terms and conditions of the Notice, the Plan and this Agreement, (b) accepts the Award subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Notice, the Plan and this Agreement, (c) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any questions arising under the Notice, the Plan or this Agreement, and (d) acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Notice, the Plan and this Agreement.
"
Participant
"
Notice of Grant of Performance Shares
"
Notice
"
"
Agreement
"
"
Award
"
"
Plan
"
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Notice or the Plan.
Definitions
.
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction
.
 
All questions of interpretation concerning this Agreement shall be determined by the Board. All determinations by the Board shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Award. Any officer of a Participating Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
 
3.1 The Participant shall not be required to make any additional monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) upon settlement of the Award. Payment of the aggregate purchase price of the shares of Stock for which the Award is being settled shall be made in the form of past services rendered by the Participant to a Participating Company or for its benefit which the Board, by resolution, determines to have a value not less than the aggregate purchase price of such shares of Stock.
No Additional Payment Required
.
 
3.2 Subject to the provisions of Section 3.6 below, the Company shall issue to the Participant, on a date within thirty (30) days following the Settlement Date (as defined in the Notice), a number of whole shares of Stock equal to the vested Performance Shares (as defined in the Notice) to be delivered on such Settlement Date, rounded down to the nearest whole number. Such shares of Stock shall not be subject to any restriction on transfer other than any such restriction as may be required pursuant to Section 3.6. On the Settlement Date, the Company shall pay to the Participant cash in lieu of any fractional share of Stock represented by a fractional Restricted Stock Unit subject to this Award in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on the Settlement Date of such fractional share of Stock.
Issuance of Shares of Stock
.
3.3 Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this Agreement, to the extent the Company determines in good faith that (a) the settlement of Performance Shares pursuant to this Agreement in connection with the Participant's termination of Service would constitute deferred compensation subject to the rules of Section 409A, and (b) that the Participant is a "specified employee" under Section 409A, then only to the extent required to avoid the Participant's incurrence of any additional tax or interest under Section 409A of the Code, such settlement will be delayed until the date which is six (6) months after the Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A. The Company and the Participant agree to negotiate in good faith to reform any provisions of this Agreement to maintain the maximum extent practicable to the original intent of the applicable provisions without violating the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, if the Company deems such reformation necessary or advisable pursuant to guidance under Section 409A to avoid the incurrence of any such interest and penalties. Such reformation shall not result in a reduction of the aggregate benefits to the Participant under this Agreement.
Application of Section 409A.
3.4 At the time the Award is granted, or at any time thereafter as requested by the Company, the Participant hereby authorizes withholding from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Participant, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for, any sums required to satisfy the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Company, if any, which arise in connection with the Award or the issuance of shares of Stock in settlement thereof. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock until the tax withholding obligations of the Company have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding
.
3.5 The certificate for the shares as to which the Award is settled shall be registered in the name of the Participant, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Participant.
Certificate Registration
.
3.6 The grant of the Award and issuance of shares of Stock upon settlement of the Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. No shares of Stock may be issued hereunder if the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having
Restrictions on Grant of the Award and Issuance of Shares
.
 
jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares subject to the Award shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the settlement of the Award, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
3.7 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the settlement of the Award.
Fractional Shares
.
 
Effective on the date of payment of cash dividends on the Stock occurring on and after the Date of Grant and before the Settlement Date, the Number of Performance Shares subject to this Award shall be increased by such additional whole and/or fractional Performance Shares determined by the following formula:
X = (A x B) / C
where,
"X" is the number of whole and/or fractional Performance Shares to be credited with respect to the Award;
"A" is the amount of cash dividends paid on one share of Stock;
"B" is the number of whole and fractional Performance Shares subject to this Award as of the cash dividend record date but immediately prior to the application of this Section; and
"C" is the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the cash dividend payment date.
Such additional Performance Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time as the Performance Shares originally subject to this Award.
 
Prior the Settlement Date, neither this Award nor any Performance Shares subject to this Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
If the Participant's Service with the Company terminates, the Award, if not earlier settled, and to the extent vested as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service as provided under the "Termination of Service" in the Grant Notice, shall be settled as provided in Section 3.
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or other business entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without the consent of the Participant, either assume the Company's rights and obligations under the Award or substitute for the Award a substantially equivalent award with respect to the Acquiror's stock. The failure of the Acquiror to assume or substitute the Award shall constitute "Good Reason" as defined in the Notice.
"
Acquiror
"
 
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate and proportionate adjustments shall be made in the number and class of shares subject to the Award, and the Target Price, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights under the Award. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 8 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number. Such adjustments shall be determined by the Board, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares which may be issued in settlement of this Award until the date of the issuance of a certificate for such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 8 or pursuant to the Dividend Equivalent Rights. If the Participant is an Employee, the Participant understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in a separate, written employment agreement between a Participating Company and the Participant, the Participant's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Participant's Service as a Director, an Employee or a Consultant, as the case may be, at any time.
 
The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock issued pursuant to this Agreement. The Participant shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to this Award in the possession of the Participant in order to carry out the provisions of this Section.
 
11.1 The parties hereto agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement.
Further Instruments.
11.2 Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Binding Effect.
11.3 The Board may terminate or amend the Plan or the Award at any time; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 7 in connection with a Change in Control, no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Award without the consent of the Participant unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
Termination or Amendment.
11.4 Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given (except to the extent that this Agreement provides for effectiveness only upon actual receipt of such notice) upon personal delivery, upon deposit in the United States Post Office, by registered or certified mail, or with an overnight courier service with postage and fees prepaid, addressed to the other party at the address shown below that party's signature or at such other address as such party may designate in writing from time to time to the other party.
Notices.
11.5 The Notice and this Agreement constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein or therein and supersedes any prior agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter other than those as set forth or provided for herein or therein. To the extent contemplated herein or therein, the provisions of the Notice and the Agreement shall survive any settlement of the Award and shall remain in full force and effect.
Integrated Agreement.
 
11.6 This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
Applicable Law.
11.7 The Notice may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 


