FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20081104165333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2008, the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee approved a Form of Change-In-Control Agreements to be used for executive officers hired after September 1, 2008.
The Form Change-In-Control Agreements set out certain benefits to the Company's executive officers in the event of a change in control. Upon a change in control, the Company must keep the executive in its employ, and the executive must remain in the employ of the Company, for 24 months following the effective date of the change in control. During the 24 month period, the executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities cannot be substantially diminished, the place of work must remain within 50 miles of the place where the executive was employed prior to the change in control. In addition, during this period the executive's base salary cannot be less than the highest annualized base salary received by the executive in the three years immediately prior to the change in control, and the executive is entitled to a cash bonus no less than the higher of the (a) average annualized bonus paid under any incentive compensation plan for the three fiscal years prior to the change in control; and (b) the amount the executive would have been paid but for such executive's participation in the Company's deferred compensation arrangement, had the executive's participation in such arrangement remained in effect following the change in control. The executive also remains eligible for incentive savings and retirement plans, welfare benefit plans generally available to peer executives, and is entitled to reimbursement of business expenses, to obtain fringe benefits, to office and support staff and to vacation time all in accordance with the most favored practices and policies of the Company available to the executive in the 90 days prior to the change in control.
Should the executive's employment with the Company terminate during the 24 month period, the Company has the following obligations: (a) upon termination by reason of death, to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; (b) upon termination by reason of disability, to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; (c) upon termination for cause, to pay all salary through the termination date plus any deferred compensation; (d) if executive terminates the employment (other than for good reason), to pay all salary, bonuses and other compensation (whether or not deferred), that have not been paid as of the date of termination; and (e) if the Company terminates the employment other than for cause or disability, or the executive terminates the employment for good reason, to (1) pay the aggregate sum of (i) all accrued obligations; (ii) two times the sum of the executive's annual base salary and the higher of either (A) the average annualized bonus paid (or payable but for a deferral) for the three years immediately preceding the change in control, or (B) the targeted annual bonus payable to the executive under the Company's incentive compensation plan for the fiscal year the change in control occurs (assuming 100% achievement of Company and executive performance factors); (iii) any guaranteed or targeted long-term incentive bonus that would have been payable within two years of termination; and (iv) an amount equal to the portion of the Company's contribution to the executive's 401(k) savings or similar account which has not vested as of the termination date; (2) pay up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services; (3) for the remainder of the 24 months, continue benefits for executive and family as if the employment had not been terminated; (4) vest all outstanding options, warrants, restricted stock grants and other equity awards, and grant the executive 12 months from date of termination to exercise such equity awards; (5) cause the acquiring entity, if any, to assume the Company's obligations under any equity awards plan, or substitute outstanding equity awards for equity grants in the acquiring entity; and (6) if executive relocated, at the company's request, in the calendar year of the termination, or the immediately preceding calendar year, pay the cost of relocating the executive to any place, so long as the costs therefor do not exceed the original relocation costs.
The Form of Change-In-Control Agreement for executive officers is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are hereby incorporated by this reference.
 
Amendment to Bylaws of Invitrogen Corporation
On October 29, 2008 the board of directors amended the bylaws of Invitrogen Corporation.
The bylaw provisions regarding the number of directors (Article II, Section 2.1) and the bylaw provisions regarding advance notice of director nominations and other shareholder proposals (Article I, Section 1.7 and 2.11) were amended in order to:
(i) provide that the board of directors shall determine the number of directors, without referring to a range for the number of positions on the board; and
(ii) expressly state that the advance notice requirements set forth therein apply to all director nominations and other shareholder proposals, whether or not such nominations or proposals are to be included in the Company's proxy statement.
The Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Invitrogen are attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are hereby incorporated by this reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Section 1.1 . An annual meeting of the stockholders, for the election of directors to succeed those whose terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as the Board of Directors shall each year fix, which date shall be within thirteen months after the organization of the corporation or after its last annual meeting of stockholders.
Annual Meeting
Section 1.2 . Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes prescribed in the notice of the meeting, may be called by (1) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption), (2) the Chairman of the Board, or (3) the President, and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as they shall fix. Business transacted at special meetings shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice.
Special Meetings
Section 1.3 . Written notice of the place, date, and time of all meetings of the stockholders shall be given, not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date on which the meeting is to be held, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law (meaning, here and hereinafter, as required from time to time by the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation).
Notice of Meetings
When a meeting is adjourned to another place, date or time, written notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the place, date and time thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than thirty (30) days after the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, written notice of the place, date, and time of the adjourned meeting shall be given in conformity herewith. At any adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
Section 1.4 . At any meeting of the stockholders, the holders of a majority of all of the shares of the stock entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for all purposes, unless or except to the extent that the presence of a larger number may be required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of this corporation.
Quorum
If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time.
If a notice of any adjourned special meeting of stockholders is sent to all stockholders entitled to vote thereat, stating that it will be held with those present constituting a quorum, then except as otherwise required by law, those present at such adjourned meeting shall constitute a quorum, and all matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast at such meeting.
 
Section 1.5 . Such person as the Board of Directors may have designated or, in the absence of such a person, the Chairman, if there is such an officer, or if not, the President or the Corporation, or in his absence the Vice President designated by the President, or in the absence of such designation any Vice President, or in the absence of all of the above, such person as may be chosen by the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, shall call to order any meeting of the stockholders and act as chairman of the meeting. In the absence of the Secretary of the Corporation, the secretary of the meeting shall be such person as the chairman appoints.
Organization
Section 1.6 . The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedure at the meeting, including such regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of discussion as seem to him in order.
Conduct of Business
Section 1.7 . At an annual or special meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) if, and only if, the notice of an annual meeting or special meeting specifically provides for and describes the business to be brought before the meeting by stockholders, properly brought before the annual meeting or special meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before a meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal offices of the Corporation no later than the date on which stockholder proposals to be included in the stockholder proxy must be received by the Corporation under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules promulgated thereunder. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual or special meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual or special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual or special meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business, and (v) any direct or indirect pecuniary or economic interest in any capital stock or other security of the Corporation of such person, including, without limitation, any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge, or profit-sharing arrangement. Notwithstanding anything in the Bylaws to the contrary (i) no business shall be conducted at an annual or special meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.7, (ii) other than with respect to stockholder nominations for the election of Directors, the procedures in clause (c) of this Section 1.7 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to properly submit business (other than business properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and included in the Corporation's proxy statement) before an annual or special meeting of stockholders; it being understood that a stockholder seeking to nominate directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders must comply with notice and information
Notice of Stockholder Business
 
requirements of Section 2.11, and (iii) the procedures in Section 2.11 (including the notice and information requirements therein) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to submit nominations for the election of Directors before an annual or special meeting of stockholders. The chairman of an annual or special meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.7, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Section 1.8 . At any meeting of the stockholders, every stockholder entitled to vote may vote in person or by proxy authorized by an instrument in writing filed in accordance with the procedure established for the meeting.
Proxies and Voting
Each stockholder shall have one vote for every share of stock entitled to vote which is registered in his name on the record date for the meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law.
All voting, except where otherwise required by law, may be by a voice vote; provided, however, that upon demand therefor by a stockholder entitled to vote or by his proxy, a stock vote shall be taken. Every stock vote shall be taken by ballots, each of which shall state the name of the stockholder or proxy voting and such other information as may be required under the procedure established for the meeting. Every vote taken by ballots shall be counted by an inspector or inspectors appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
All elections shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast, and except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of this Corporation or these Bylaws, all other matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast.
Section 1.9 . A complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders, arranged in alphabetical order for each class of stock and showing the address of each such stockholder and the number of shares registered in his name, shall be open to the examination of any such stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.
Stock List
The stock list shall also be kept at the place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and shall be open to the examination of any such stockholder who is present. This list shall presumptively determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
Section 1.10 . The stockholders of the Corporation may not act by written consent and may act only at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders.
No Stockholder Action by Written Consent
 
Section 2.1 . The number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption). The directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the stockholders, who shall vote for such directors as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. The directors shall be divided into three (3) classes, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the first annual meeting of stockholders held after the closing of the first sale of the Corporation's common stock pursuant to a firmly underwritten registered public offering (the "IPO"); the term of office of the second class to expire at the second annual meeting of stockholders held after the IPO; the term of office of the third class to expire at the third annual meeting of stockholders held after the IPO; and thereafter for each such term to expire at each third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after such election. All directors shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of the death, resignation or removal of any director. Directors need not be stockholders.
Number and Term of Office
Section 2.2 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, or other cause (other then removal from office by a vote of the stockholders) may be filled only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office to which they have been elected expires, and until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of death or resignation in which case the directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
Section 2.3 . Subject to the limitations stated in the Certificate of Incorporation, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, but only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of its then outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office before the expiration of the applicable term of office only with cause. Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from such removal may be filled by (i) a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or (ii) the stockholders at a special meeting of the stockholders properly called for that purpose, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at such special meeting. Directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders.
Removal
Section 2.4 . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place or places, on such date or dates, and at such time or times as shall have been established by the Board of Directors and publicized among all directors. A notice of each regular meeting shall not be required.
Regular Meetings
 
Section 2.5 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by one third of the directors then in office (rounded up to the nearest whole number), by the chairman of the board or by the chief executive officer and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as they or he shall fix. Notice of the place, date, and time of each such special meeting shall be given each director by whom it is not waived:
Special Meetings
(i) by mailing written notice not less than five (5) days before the meeting;
(ii) delivering written notice by overnight courier not less than one (1) day before the meeting
(iii) delivering written notice by overseas courier service not less than two (2) days before the meeting; or
(iv) providing notice thereof by telephone, telecopy, email or personal delivery not less than twelve (12) hours before the meeting.
Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting.
Section 2.6 . At any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of authorized directors shall constitute a quorum for all purposes. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time, without further notice or waiver thereof.
Quorum
Section 2.7 . Members of the Board of Directors, or of any committee of the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone
Section 2.8 . At any meeting of the Board of Directors, business shall be transacted in such order and manner as the Board may from time to time determine, and all matters shall be determined by the vote of a majority of the directors present, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Action may be taken by the Board of Directors without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors.
Conduct of Business
Section 2.9 . The Board of Directors may, except as otherwise required by law, exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the unqualified power:
Powers
(1) To declare dividends from time to time in accordance with law;
(2) To purchase or otherwise acquire any property, rights or privileges on such terms as it shall determine;
 
(3) To authorize the creation, making and issuance, in such form as it may determine, of written obligations of every kind, negotiable or non negotiable, secured or unsecured, and
(4) To remove any officer of the Corporation with or without cause, and from time to time to pass on the powers and duties of any officer upon any other person for the time being;
(5) To confer upon any officer of the Corporation the power to appoint, remove and suspend subordinate officers, employees and agents;
(6) To adopt from time to time such stock option, stock purchase, bonus or other compensation plans for directors, officers, employees and agents of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as it may determine;
(7) To adopt from time to time such insurance, retirement, and other benefit plans for directors, officers, employees and agents of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as it may determine;
(8) To adopt from time to time regulations, not inconsistent with these Bylaws, for the management of the Corporation's business and affairs; and
(9) To appoint one of the directors to serve as Presiding Director and to designate the authority and responsibilities of the Presiding Director.
Section 2.10 . Directors, as such, may receive, pursuant to resolution of the Board of Directors, fixed fees and other compensation for their services as directors, including, without limitation, their services as members of committees of the Board of Directors.
Compensation of Directors
Section 2.11 . Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, nominations for the election of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or a proxy committee appointed by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11 and who is a stockholder of record at the time notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. However, any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally may nominate one or more persons for election as Directors at a meeting only if timely notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with this Section 2.11. To be timely, a stockholder nomination for a director to be elected at an annual meeting shall be received at the Corporation's principal executive offices not less than 120 calendar days in advance of the first year anniversary of the date that the Corporation's proxy statement was released to stockholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders, except that if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 calendar days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, or in the event of a nomination for director to be elected at a special meeting, notice by the stockholders to be timely must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of
Nomination of Director Candidates
 
the special meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of Directors on the date of such notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected; and (f) any direct or indirect pecuniary or economic interest in any capital stock or other security of the Corporation of such nominating stockholders, including, without limitation, any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge, or profit-sharing arrangement.
In the event that a person is validly designated as a nominee in accordance with this Section 2.11 and shall thereafter become unable or unwilling to stand for election to the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors or the stockholder who proposed such nominee, as the case may be, may designate a substitute nominee upon delivery, not fewer than five days prior to the date of the meeting for the election of such nominee, of a written notice to the Secretary setting forth such information regarding such substitute nominee as would have been required to be delivered to the Secretary pursuant to this Section 2.11 had such substitute nominee been initially proposed as a nominee. Such notice shall include a signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation, if elected, of each such substitute nominee.
If the chairman of the meeting for the election of Directors determines that a nomination of any candidate for election as a Director at such meeting was not made in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Section 2.11, such nomination shall be void; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 2.11 shall be deemed to limit any voting rights upon the occurrence of dividend arrearages provided to holders of Preferred Stock pursuant to the Preferred Stock designation for any series of Preferred Stock.
Section 3.1 . The Board of Directors, by a vote of a majority of the whole Board, may from time to time designate committees of the Board, with such lawfully delegable powers and duties as it thereby confers, to serve at the pleasure of the Board and shall, for those committees and any others provided for herein, elect a director or directors to serve as the member or members, designating, if it desires, other directors as alternate members who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any committee so designated may exercise the power and authority of the Board of Directors to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock or to adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation if the resolution which designates the committee or a supplemental resolution of the Board of Directors shall so provide. In the absence or disqualification of any
Committees of the Board of Directors
 
member of any committee and any alternate member in his place, the member or members of the committee present at the meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may by unanimous vote appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
Section 3.2 . Each committee may determine the procedural rules for meeting and conducting its business and shall act in accordance therewith, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Adequate provision shall be made for notice to members of all meetings. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time, without further notice or waiver thereof. All matters shall be determined by a majority vote of the members present. Action may be taken by any committee without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee.
Conduct of Business
Section 4.1 . The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a President, a Secretary and a Chief Financial Officer. The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, one or more Executive or Senior Vice Presidents, and such other officers as may from time to time be appointed by the Board of Directors. Officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors, which shall consider that subject at its first meeting after every annual meeting of stockholders. Each officer shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Generally
Section 4.2 . The Chairman of the Board, if there shall be such an officer, shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors, and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may be from time to time assigned to him by the Board of Directors or as provided by these Bylaws.
Chairman of the Board
Section 4.3 . Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board, if there be such an officer, the President shall be the general manager and chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and officers of the corporation. He shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders. He shall be ex officio a member of all the standing committees, including the executive committee, if any, and shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws.
President
Section 4.4 . In the absence or disability of the President, the Executive or Senior Vice Presidents in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors, or if not ranked, the Vice President designated by the Board of Director, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the President. The Executive or Senior Vice Presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
Executive or Senior Vice Presidents
 
. The Chief Financial Officer shall keep and maintain or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of account in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form.
Chief Financial Officer
The Chief Financial Officer shall deposit all monies and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse all funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the President and Directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as Chief Financial Officer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws.
Section 4.5 . The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, a book of minutes in written form of the proceedings of the Board of Directors, committees of the Board, and stockholders. Such minutes shall include all waivers of notice, consents to the holding of meetings, or approvals of the minutes of meetings executed pursuant to these Bylaws or the General Delaware Corporation Law. The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept at the principal executive office or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a record of its stockholders, giving the names and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of shares held by each.
Secretary
The Secretary shall give or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, and shall keep the seal of the corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
Section 4.6 . The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers or agents, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Delegation of Authority
Section 4.7 . Any officer of the Corporation may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors.
Removal
Section 4.8 . Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the President or any officer of the Corporation authorized by the President shall have power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the Corporation, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of stockholders of or with respect to any action of stockholders of any other corporation in which this Corporation may hold securities and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this Corporation may possess by reason of its ownership of securities in such other corporation.
Action With Respect to Securities of Other Corporations
 
Section 5.1 . Each stockholder shall be entitled to a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the President or an Executive or Senior Vice President, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Chief Financial Officer, certifying the number of shares owned by him or her. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile.
Certificates of Stock
Section 5.2 . Transfers of stock shall be made only upon the transfer books of the Corporation kept at an office of the Corporation or by transfer agents designated to transfer shares of the stock of the Corporation. Except where a certificate is issued in accordance with Section 5.4 of these Bylaws, an outstanding certificate for the number of shares involved shall be surrendered for cancellation before a new certificate is issued therefor.
Transfers of Stock
Section 5.3 . The Board of Directors may fix a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor fewer than ten (10) days before the date of any meeting of stockholders, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the time for the other action hereinafter described, as of which there shall be determined the stockholders who are entitled: to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof; to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights; or to exercise any rights with respect to any change, conversion or exchange of stock or with respect to any other lawful action.
Record Date
Section 5.4 . In the event of the loss, theft or destruction of any certificate of stock, another may be issued in its place pursuant to such regulations as the Board of Directors may establish concerning proof of such loss, theft or destruction and concerning the giving of a satisfactory bond or bonds of indemnity.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 5.5 . The issue, transfer, conversion and registration of certificates of stock shall be governed by such other regulations as the Board of Directors may establish.
Regulations
Section 6.1 . Notice of Special Meetings of the Board shall be provided in accordance with Section 2.5 above. Except for such notices of Special Meetings and except as otherwise specifically provided herein or required by law, all notices required to be given to any stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent shall be in writing and may in every instance be effectively given by hand delivery to the recipient thereof, by depositing such notice in the mails, postage paid, or by sending such notice by prepaid commercial courier service. Any such notice shall be addressed to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent at his last known address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. The time when such notice is received by such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent, or by any person accepting such notice on behalf of such person, if hand delivered, or dispatched, if delivered through the mails or by telegram, courier or mailgram, shall be the time of the giving of the notice.
Notices
 
Section 6.2 . A written waiver of any notice, signed by a stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent, whether before or after the time of the event for which notice is to be given, shall be deemed equivalent to the notice required to be given to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent. Neither the business nor the purpose of any meeting need be specified in such a waiver. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice for such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Waivers
Section 7.1 . In addition to the provisions for use of facsimile signatures elsewhere specifically authorized in these Bylaws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
Facsimile Signatures
Section 7.2 . The Board of Directors may provide a suitable seal, containing the name of the Corporation, which seal shall be in the charge of the Secretary. If and when so directed by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, duplicates of the seal may be kept and used by the Chief Financial Officer or by an Assistant Secretary or other officer designated by the Board of Directors.
Corporate Seal
Section 7.3 . Each director, each member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, and each officer of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Corporation, including reports made to the Corporation by any of its officers, by an independent certified public accountant, or by an appraiser.
Reliance Upon Books, Reports and Records
Section 7.4 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
Section 7.5 . In applying any provision of these Bylaws which require that an act be done or not done a specified number of days prior to an event or that an act be done during a period of a specified number of days prior to an event, calendar days shall be used, the day of the doing of the act shall be excluded, and the day of the event shall be included.
Time Periods
Section 8.1 . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, or appellate ("Proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or a person of whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer, employee or agent of another corporation, or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such Proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General
Right to Indemnification
 
Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) against all expenses, liability and loss (including attorney's fees, judgment, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and amounts expended in seeking indemnification granted to such person under applicable law, this Bylaw or any agreement with the Corporation) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 8.2, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnity in connection with an action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law then so requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer of the Corporation in his capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of such proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it should be determined ultimately that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
Section 8.2 . If a claim under Section 8.1 is not paid in full by the corporation within sixty (60) days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty (20) days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) in any suit by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking the corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth under the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its board of directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation law of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its board of directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such a suit. In a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article or otherwise shall be on the corporation.
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
 
Section 8.3 . The corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article with respect to the indemnification of and advancement of expenses to directors and officers of the corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
Section 8.4 . The rights conferred on any person by Sections 8.1 and 8.2 shall not be exclusive of any other right which such persons may have or hereafter acquired under any statute, provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, by law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non Exclusivity of Rights
Section 8.5 . The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any director or his affiliates, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or any person serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including employee benefit plans, providing for indemnification rights equivalent to those provided for in this Article VIII.
Indemnification Contracts
Section 8.6 . The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any such director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expenses, liability or loss under Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance
Section 8.7 . Unless otherwise determined by (i) the Board of Directors, (ii) if more than half of the Directors are involved in a Proceeding by a majority vote of a committee of one or more distinguished Director(s) or (iii) if directed by the Board of Directors, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, any indemnification extended to an officer or key employee pursuant to this Article VIII shall include payment by the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation of expenses as the same are incurred in defending a Proceeding in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by such officer or key employee seeking indemnification to repay such payment if such officer or key employee shall be adjudicated or determined not to be entitled to indemnification under this Article VIII.
Advance Payment of Expenses
Section 8.8 . Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article VIII by the stockholders or the directors of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director or officer of the Corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
Effect of Amendment
Section 8.9 . If this Article or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director, officer, employee and agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
Savings Clause
 
These Bylaws may be amended or repealed, and new Bylaws may be adopted, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, or by vote of at least 66-2/3% of the number of directors of the Corporation then authorized, in the manner prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
I hereby certify:
That I am the duly elected Secretary of Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation;
That the foregoing Bylaws comprising fourteen (14) pages, constitute the amended and restated Bylaws of said corporation as duly adopted by the Corporation on May 22, 1997 and as amended July 31, 1998, November 20, 1998, January 15, 1999, July 19, 2001 and amended and restated on July 22, 2004.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunder subscribed my name this day of September 2008.
        
 

Exhibit 99.2
This CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT (the "") is entered into by and between INVITROGEN CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation (the ""), and , an individual (the ""), dated as of .
Agreement
Company
[insert Executive's name]
Executive
[insert date]
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the ""), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 2(a) of this Agreement).
Board
WHEREAS, the Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of the Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change in Control and to encourage the Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in Control, and to provide the Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change in Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of the Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements contained in this Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Executive and the Company hereby agree as follows:
1. .
Certain Definitions
(a) The "" shall be the first date during the Change in Control Period (as defined in Section 1(b) of this Agreement) on which a Change in Control occurs; provided that the Executive is employed on that date. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated or the Executive ceases to be an officer of the Company prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change in Control, or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of the Change in Control, then, for all purposes of this Agreement, the "" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment or cessation of status as an officer.
Effective Date
Effective Date
(b) The "" is the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the second (2
Change in Control Period
nd
) anniversary of such date; provided, however, that commencing on the date one (1) year after the date hereof, and on each annual anniversary of such date (such date and each annual anniversary thereof is hereinafter referred to as the ""), the Change in Control Period shall be automatically extended so as to terminate two (2) years from such Renewal Date, unless at least sixty (60) days prior to the Renewal Date the Company shall give written notice to the Executive that the Change in Control Period shall not be so extended.
Renewal Date
 
2. . For the purpose of this Agreement:
Change in Control
(a) "" shall mean:
Change in Control
(i) Any acquisition or series of acquisitions, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "") or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); provided, however, that (A) any acquisition by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, (B) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (C) any acquisition or series of acquisitions which results in any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) acquiring beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than fifty percent (50%) of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and while such a beneficial owner such individual, entity or group does not exercise the voting power of his, her or its Outstanding Company Common Stock or otherwise exercise control with respect to any matter concerning or affecting the Company and promptly sells, transfers, assigns or otherwise disposes of that number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock necessary to reduce his, her or its beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of the Outstanding Company Common Stock to below 50%, as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control; or
Exchange Act
Outstanding Company Common Stock
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
(ii) Individuals who as of , constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to , whose election, or nomination for election, by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of the Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) relating to the election of directors of the Company; or
[insert new date]
Incumbent Board
[insert new date]
(iii) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company, in each case, with respect to which all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than sixty percent (60%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation.
 
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, "Change in Control" shall mean that certain acquisition of Applera Corporation by the Company , as more particularly described in that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated June 11, 2008, by and among the Company, Applera Corporation and Atom Acquisition, LLC.
not
3. . The Company hereby agrees to continue the Executive in its employ, and the Executive hereby agrees to remain in the employ of the Company, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending at the end of the twenty-fourth (24
Employment Period
th
) month period following the Effective Date (the "").
Employment Period
4.
Terms of Employment.
(a) .
Position and Duties
(i) During the Employment Period, (A) the Executive shall perform those duties of the Executive's position as may be assigned from time to time by the Company's Chief Executive Officer, and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the Effective Date or any office or location less than fifty (50) miles from such location.
(ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and any of its parent and subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions and other affiliated entities, as determined by Company to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions, or (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company.
,
(b) .
Compensation
(i) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary (""), which shall be paid at a monthly rate, at least equal to the highest annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve (12) full months) base salary paid or payable to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies in respect of the three (3) years immediately preceding the Effective Date. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary may be increased at any time and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent
Base Salary
Annual Base Salary
 
with increases in base salary generally awarded in the ordinary course of business to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to the Annual Base Salary as so increased. As used in this Agreement, the term "" includes any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company.
affiliated companies
(ii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Company's annual incentive compensation plan (""), subject to the applicable terms and conditions of such plan.
Annual Bonus
Annual Bonus
(iii) . In addition to Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus payable as hereinabove provided, the Executive shall be entitled to participate during the Employment Period in all incentive (including, but not limited to, long-term incentive bonus), savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies; provided, however, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company retains the right to modify or eliminate such plans prospectively, upon notice to the Executive, so long as such modification or elimination is made as part of, and is generally consistent with, the modification or elimination of plans generally applicable to the Executive's peers.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans
(iv) . During the Employment Period, the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in and shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent generally applicable to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies; provided, however, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company retains the right to modify or eliminate such plans prospectively, upon notice to the Executive, so long as such modification or elimination is made as part of, and is generally consistent with, the modification or elimination of plans generally applicable to the Executive's peers.
Welfare Benefit Plans
(v) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable business expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the most favorable policies, practices and procedures generally provided to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies. Such reimbursements shall be paid in accordance with the Company's reimbursement policies and practices; provided, however, that such reimbursements shall (A) be paid no later than the last day of the Executive's tax year following the tax year in which the expense was incurred, (B) not be affected by any other expenses that are eligible for reimbursement in any tax year, and (C) not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
Business Expenses
(vi) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company generally provided to other peer executives of the
Fringe Benefits
 
Company and its affiliated companies; provided, however, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company retains the right to modify or eliminate such benefits prospectively, upon notice to the Executive, so long as such modification or elimination is made as part of, and is generally consistent with, the modification or elimination of benefits generally applicable to the Executive's peers.
(vii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to personal secretarial and other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing generally provided to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.
Office and Support Staff
(viii) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated companies, as applicable to Executive, in effect for the Executive at any time during the ninety (90) day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies; provided, however, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company retains the right to modify or eliminate such plans prospectively, upon notice to the Executive, so long as such modification or elimination is made as part of, and is generally consistent with, the modification or elimination of plans generally applicable to the Executive's peers.
Vacation
5. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability (as defined below) of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period, it may give to the Executive written notice (in accordance with Section 19(b) of this Agreement) of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the thirtieth (30
Death or Disability
th
) day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the ""); provided that, within thirty (30) days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for one hundred eighty (180) consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative (such agreement as to acceptability not to be withheld unreasonably).
Disability Effective Date
Disability
(b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period for Cause (as defined below) only in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
Cause
(i) For purposes of this Agreement, "" means (A) repeated violations by the Executive of the Executive's material responsibilities and material duties under Section 4(a) of this Agreement which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive's
Cause
 
part and which are not remedied in a reasonable period of time after receipt of written notice from the Company, (B) commission of an intentional act of fraud, embezzlement or theft by the Executive in connection with the Executive's duties or in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities, (C) violation of any law, regulation, or rule applicable to the Company's or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities' business or reputation, including, without limitation, securities laws, (D) causing intentional wrongful damage to property of the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities, (E) intentionally and wrongfully disclosing secret processes or confidential information of the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities, (F) conviction of, or plea of to, a felony, which conviction or plea materially harms the business or reputation of the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities, or (G) participating, without the Company's express written consent, in the management of any business enterprise which engages in substantial and direct competition with the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities; provided that in the case of clauses (A) through (F), any such act or omission shall have been materially harmful to the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities.
nolo contendere
(ii) The Company may not terminate the Executive's employment for Cause under clause (C), (D), or (E) of such definition set forth above unless: (a) the Company provides the Executive with written notice of its intent to terminate the Executive's employment for Cause, including a detailed description of the specific reasons which form the basis for such consideration; (b) within thirty (30) days after the date such notice is provided, the Executive shall have a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board, with or without legal representation, at the Executive's election and at the Executive's expense, to present arguments and evidence on his own behalf to defend such act or acts, or failure to act, and, if, as determined by the Board, such act or failure to act is correctable, the Executive shall be given thirty (30) days after such meeting to correct such act or failure to act; and (c) following presentation to the Board as provided in clause (b) above or the Executive's failure to appear before the Board at a date and time specified in the notice and, following expiration of the thirty (30) day period in which to correct such acts or failures to act that the Board has determined are correctable, the Executive may be terminated for Cause only if (1) the Board, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its members (excluding the Executive and any other member of the Board reasonably believed by the Board to be involved in the events leading the Board to terminate the Executive for Cause), determines that the acts or failures to act of the Executive specified in the notice occurred and remained uncorrected, and the Executive's employment should accordingly be terminated for Cause; and (2) the Board provides the Executive with a written determination setting forth in specific detail the basis of such termination of employment which are consistent with the reasons set forth in the notice.
 
(c) . The Executive's employment may be terminated during the Employment Period by the Executive for Good Reason (as defined below). For purposes of this Agreement, "" means:
Good Reason
Good Reason
(i) a substantial diminution in the Executive's position, authority, duties and responsibilities which, when measured in the aggregate, are inconsistent with the position the Executive held immediately prior to the Change in Control. Changes only to the Executive's reporting relationships, level of reporting relationships, and/or title shall not alone establish Good Reason. Additionally, any isolated, insubstantial or inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive shall not be considered when making a determination of whether Good Reason exists;
(ii) a reduction of the Executive's Base Salary and annual incentive compensation plan individual target percentage in place immediately prior to the Change in Control, excluding any isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive;
(iii) a failure by the Company to comply with Subsections 4(b)(iii)-(viii) of this Agreement. Any isolated, insubstantial or inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of written notice thereof given by the Executive shall not be considered when making a determination of whether Good Reason exists;
(iv) the Company requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location more than fifty (50) miles from such office or location where the Executive was based immediately prior to the Change in Control, or requiring a material increase in the travel duties of the Executive in the course of discharging responsibilities or duties which is significantly more frequent (in terms of either consecutive days or aggregate days in any calendar year) than was required prior to the Change in Control;
(v) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or
(vi) any failure by any successor to the Company to comply with and satisfy 18(c) of this Agreement; provided that such successor has received at least ten (10) days prior written notice from the Company or the Executive of the requirements of Section 18(c) of this Agreement.
(d) . Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason shall be communicated by Notice of Termination (as defined below) to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 19(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated, and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined in Section 5(e) of this Agreement) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than fifteen (15) days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause, as the case may be, shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
Notice of Termination
Notice of Termination
 
(e) . For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, as the case may be; provided, however, that (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination, and (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
Date of Termination
6. .
Obligations of the Company upon Termination
(a) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than the following obligations: (i) payment of the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid; (ii) payment of the product of (x) the Annual Bonus and any long-term incentive bonus paid, guaranteed to be paid, or payable but for any deferral (and annualized for any fiscal year consisting of less than twelve full months or for which the Executive has been employed for less than twelve (12) full months) to the Executive for the most recently completed fiscal year during the Employment Period, and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty five (365); (iii) payment of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together with any accrued interest thereon) and not yet paid by the Company and any accrued vacation pay not yet paid by the Company; (iv) payment of any earned or guaranteed Annual Bonus, long-term incentive bonus or other incentive compensation payments attributable to prior fiscal years to the extent not theretofore paid; and (v) payment for any substantiated business and relocation expenses incurred by the Executive to the extent not theretofore reimbursed (the amounts described in clauses (i) through (v) above are hereafter referred to as ""). All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive's family shall be entitled to receive benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits provided generally by the Company and any of its affiliated companies to surviving families of peer executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to family death benefits, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the ninety (90) day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family as in effect on the date of the Executive's death generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Death
Accrued Obligations
 
(b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. All Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days of the Date of Termination. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive disability and other benefits at least equal to the most favorable of those provided by the Company and its affiliated companies to disabled peer executives and/or their families in accordance with such plans, programs, practices and policies relating to disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives and their families at any time during the ninety (90) day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive and/or the Executive's family, as in effect at any time thereafter through the Date of Termination generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families.
Disability
(c) . If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay to the Executive the Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination plus the amount of any compensation previously deferred by the Executive, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. If the Executive terminates employment during the Employment Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for Accrued Obligations. In such case, all Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days of the Date of Termination.
Cause
(d) . If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause or Disability, or the Executive shall terminate employment under this Agreement for Good Reason:
Good Reason or Termination Without Cause
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive the aggregate of the following amounts, such amounts to be payable by the Company in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days of the Date of termination:
A. All Accrued Obligations; and
B. times the sum of the Executive's Annual Base Salary and the higher of either (i) the average annualized (for any year with respect to which the Executive has been employed by the Company for less than twelve (12) full months) bonus paid, or payable but for any deferral to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated companies under the Company's deferred compensation arrangements, in respect of the three (3) years or lesser number of years during which the Executive has been employed by the Company immediately preceding the Effective Date, or (ii) the targeted annual bonus payable to the Executive pursuant to the Company's annual incentive compensation plan for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (assuming one hundred percent (100%) achievement of the Company performance factor and one hundred percent (100%) achievement of the Executive's personal performance factor); and
2.0
C. Any guaranteed or targeted long-term incentive bonus that would have been payable within two (2) years of the Date of Termination; and
 
D. An amount equal to that portion, if any, of the Company's contribution to the Executive's 401(k), savings or other similar individual account plan which is not vested as of the Date of Termination (the ""), plus an amount which when added to the Unvested Company Contribution would be sufficient after federal, state and local income taxes (based on the tax returns filed by the Executive most recently prior to the Date of Termination) to enable the Executive to net an amount equal to the Unvested Company Contribution; and
Unvested Company Contribution
(ii) the Company shall pay the Executive up to $25,000 for executive outplacement services utilized by the Executive upon the receipt by the Company of written receipts or other appropriate documentation; and
(iii) for the remainder of the Employment Period, or such longer period as any plan, program, practice or policy may provide, the Company shall continue benefits at the Company's expense to the Executive and, where applicable, the Executive's family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not been terminated in accordance with the most favorable plans, practices, programs or policies of the Company and its affiliated companies generally applicable to other peer executives and their families during the ninety (90) day period immediately preceding the Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies and their families; provided, however, that if the Executive becomes employed elsewhere during the Employment Period and is thereby afforded comparable insurance and welfare benefits to those described in Section 4(b)(iv) of this Agreement, the Company's obligation to continue providing the Executive with such benefits shall cease or be correspondingly reduced, as the case may be. For purposes of determining eligibility of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have remained employed until the end of the Employment Period and to have retired on the last day of such period; and
(iv) all outstanding stock options, shares of restricted stock and other equity based awards held by the Executive pursuant to any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement, restricted stock agreement or other agreement shall immediately become vested and exercisable as to all or any part of the shares covered thereby, with the Executive being able to exercise his stock options within a period of twelve (12) months following the Date of Termination or such longer period as may be permitted under the Executive's stock option agreements; and
(v) the Company shall make its best efforts to require the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or parent corporation thereof, as the case may be (the ""), to either assume the Company's rights and obligations under any Company stock option plan, stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement or substitute for outstanding options or restricted shares substantially equivalent options or restricted shares of the Acquiring Corporation's stock. For this purpose, a stock option or restricted share shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the stock option or restricted share confers the right to receive in accordance with its terms and conditions, for each
Acquiring Corporation
 
share of the Company stock subject to a stock option agreement or restricted stock agreement immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) to which a holder of a share of the Company stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled; and
(vi) if, in the calendar year in which occurs the Date of Termination or in the immediately preceding calendar year, the Executive had relocated the Executive's primary residence from one location (the "") to its location at the Date of Termination at the request of the Company, then any relocation expenses that are actually incurred in the twelve (12) month period immediately following the Date of Termination by the Executive in moving the Executive's primary residence and personal property to any location shall be reimbursed by the Company, to the extent such expenses do not exceed the cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin; provided that such expenses are substantiated by means of written receipts. The cost of relocating the Executive's primary residence and personal property to the Point of Origin shall be determined by averaging estimates obtained by the Company in writing from three (3) reputable moving companies, selected by the Company in good faith. It shall be the obligation of the Executive to notify the Company in advance of any such relocation so that such estimates may be obtained.
Point of Origin
The amounts required to be paid under this Section 6(d) shall be reduced by any other amount of severance (i.e., relating solely to salary or bonus continuation or actual or deemed pension or insurance continuation) received by the Executive upon such termination of employment under any severance plan, policy or arrangement of the Company applicable to the Executive or a group of employees of the Company, including the Executive, and applicable without regard to the occurrence of a Change in Control prior to such termination of employment.
(e) Any payments made pursuant to this Section 6 shall be less required deductions for state and federal withholding tax, social security and all other employment taxes and payroll deductions.
7. . The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation or benefits earned by the Executive as the result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits.
No-Mitigation
8. . Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company or any of its affiliated companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any of its affiliated companies. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of its affiliated companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
Non-exclusivity of Rights
 
9. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, except as provided in the last sentence of Section 6(d) of this Agreement, shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur, including the costs and expenses of any arbitration proceeding, as a result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""); provided that the Executive's claim is not determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or an arbitrator to be frivolous or otherwise entirely without merit.
Full Settlement
Code
10. . In order to be eligible to receive any benefits under Section 6 of this Agreement, the Executive must execute a general release in which the Executive, on behalf of the Executive, his or her heirs, personal representatives or successors and assigns, fully and unconditionally releases and discharges all claims and causes of action against the Company, its officers, employees, parent and subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, divisions and other affiliated entities, in a form acceptable to the Company, which will contain provisions substantially similar to those included on the form attached as Exhibit 1.
Release
11. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
(a) . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid, payable, distributed or distributable pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise (a "") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (or any successor provision) or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to in this Agreement as the ""), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "") in an amount such that after the payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.
Gross-Up Payment Amount
Payment
Excise Tax
Gross-Up Payment
(b) . Subject to the provisions of Section 11(c) of this Agreement, all determinations required to be made under this Section 11, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by an accounting firm of national standing reasonably selected by the Company (the ""), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and the Executive within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of written notice from the Executive that there has been a
Determinations
Accounting Firm
 
Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 11, shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within five (5) business days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination and calculations. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive. As a result of the possible uncertainty in application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments will not have been made by the Company that should have been made (""), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 11(c) of this Agreement and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive.
Underpayment
(c) . The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim or audit by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, could reasonably require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten (10) business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
Internal Revenue Service Claim or Audit
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim;
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Executive;
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim; and
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or
 
contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to the Executive, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled in his sole discretion to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
(d) . If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c) of this Agreement, the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of such Section) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 11(c) of this Agreement, a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
Refunds
(e) . All payment pursuant to this Section 11 must be made by the end of the taxable year next following the taxable year in which the Executive remits any taxes associated with the provisions of this Section 11.
Timing of Payments
12. .
Application of Section 409A
(a) Notwithstanding anything set forth in this Agreement to the contrary, no amount payable pursuant to this Agreement which constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code ("") shall be paid unless and until the Executive has incurred a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A. Further, to the extent that the Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A as of the date of the Executive's separation from service, no amount that constitutes a deferral of compensation which is payable on account of the Executive's separation from service shall be paid to the Executive before the date (the "") which is the first (1
Section 409A
Delayed Payment Date
st
) day of the seventh (7
th
) month after the date of the Executive's separation from service or, if earlier, the date of the Executive's death following such separation from service. All such amounts that would, but for this Section 12, become payable prior to the Delayed Payment Date will be accumulated and paid on the Delayed Payment Date.
 
(b) The Company intends that income provided to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement will not be subject to taxation under Section 409A. The provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted and construed in favor of satisfying any applicable requirements of Section 409A. The Company and the Executive agree to negotiate in good faith to reform any provisions of this Agreement to maintain to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable provisions without violating the provisions of Section 409A, if the Company deems such reformation necessary or advisable pursuant to guidance under Section 409A to avoid the incurrence of any such interest and penalties. Such reformation shall not result in a reduction of the aggregate amount of payments or benefits under this Agreement. In any event, except for the Company's responsibility to withhold applicable income and employment taxes from compensation paid or provided to the Executive, the Company shall not be responsible for the payment of any applicable taxes on compensation paid or provided to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement.
However, the Company does not guarantee any particular tax effect for income provided to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement.
13. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company all secret and/or confidential information, knowledge and/or data relating to the Company and/or any of its parent and subsidiary entities, divisions and affiliated companies, partnerships and other affiliated entities and their respective businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its parent and subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities and which shall not be or become public knowledge (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In addition, to the extent that the Executive is a party to any other agreement relating to confidential information, inventions or similar matters with the Company, the Executive shall continue to comply with the provisions of such agreements. In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section 13 constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement.
Confidential Information
14. . The Executive shall consult with the Company before issuing any press release or otherwise making any public statement with respect to the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, divisions or affiliated companies, partnerships or other affiliated entities, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Executive shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior written approval of the Company, except as may be required by applicable law, rule or regulation or any self regulatory agency requirements, in which event the Company shall have the right to review and comment upon any such press release or public statement prior to its issuance.
Public Announcements
15. . Excluding any action in furtherance of, or to enforce, the terms of this Agreement, the Executive agrees that he will not at any time in the future take any action detrimental to the Company or any of its parent and subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities, nor make any critical or disparaging statements about the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, divisions or affiliated companies, partnerships, other affiliated entities, its or their services or products, past
Nondisparagement and Nonsolicitation
 
and present officers, directors or employees, unless such statements are made truthfully in response to a subpoena or other legal process. For a period of one (1) year after the Date of Termination, the Executive shall not, on behalf of himself or any other person or entity, either directly or indirectly, solicit, or attempt to solicit anyone who now is, or subsequently becomes, an employee of or consultant to the Company or any of its parent and subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities to work for or provide business to any other person or entity or to terminate or diminish such person or entity's employment or consulting relationship with the Company or any of its parent and subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities.
16. . Executive agrees that a prerequisite to and a condition of receiving any benefits under this Agreement is that Executive enter into and comply with an agreement (in a form acceptable to Company and drafted in accordance with applicable law), which provides that for a period of one (1) year after the Date of Termination, the Executive shall not, either directly or indirectly, through an affiliated or controlled entity or person, on Executive's own behalf or as an employee, partner, consultant, principal, agent or otherwise in any other capacity (except by ownership of five percent (5%) or less of the outstanding stock of any publicly held corporation), (a) own, manage, operate, finance, control, invest in, participate or engage in, work for, render services or advice to, or devote any material endeavor or effort to, a person or an entity engaged in a business which is in competition with the business of Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities or (b) solicit Company's or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities' customers.
Noncompete and Nonsolicitation of Customers
17. . This Agreement contains all of the terms agreed upon between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof between the Executive and the Company with respect to the matters contemplated in this Agreement (except for any understandings or agreements reflected in a separate non-competition, confidentiality, invention or other similar agreement or agreements between the Company and the Executive). Without limiting the effect of the foregoing, the Executive agrees that this Agreement satisfies any rights he may have had under any prior understanding or agreement between the Executive and the Company with respect to the subject matters described therein. The Executive and the Company agree that no term, provision or condition of this Agreement shall be held to be altered, amended, changed or waived in any respect except as evidenced by written agreement of the Executive and the Company.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
18. Arbitration and Equitable Relief.
(a) Except as provided in Section 17(d) of this Agreement, the Executive and the Company agree that to the extent permitted by law, any dispute or controversy arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, or the interpretation, validity, construction, performance, breach, or termination thereof will be resolved by arbitration to be held at a location within thirty (30) miles of the Company's principal executive offices in California, in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator may grant injunctions or other relief in such dispute or controversy. The decision of the arbitrator will be final, conclusive and binding on the parties to the arbitration. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's decision in any court having jurisdiction.
 
(b) The arbitrator will apply Delaware law to the merits of any dispute or claim, without reference to rules of conflict of law. The Executive hereby expressly consents to the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in California for any action or proceeding arising from or relating to this Agreement and/or relating to any arbitration in which the parties are participants.
(c) The Company will pay the direct costs and expenses of the arbitration. The Company and Executive each will separately pay its counsel fees and expenses; provided, however, the Company shall reimburse the Executive for his reasonable costs (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees) incurred if the Executive succeeds on the merits with respect to a material breach of this Agreement at any such arbitration, including enforcing any judgment entered on an arbitrator's decision.
(d) The Company may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or other interim or conservatory relief, as necessary to enforce the provisions of any other employment, incentive, compensation, stock option or other similar arrangement, without breach of this Section 17 and without abridgement of the powers of the arbitrator.
(e) Nothing contained in this Section 17 shall prevent the Executive and the Company from settling any dispute by mutual agreement at any time.
(f) THE EXECUTIVE HAS READ AND UNDERSTANDS THIS SECTION 17, WHICH DISCUSSES ARBITRATION. THE EXECUTIVE UNDERSTANDS THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, THE EXECUTIVE AGREES TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, TO SUBMIT ANY FUTURE CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE, BREACH, OR TERMINATION THEREOF TO BINDING ARBITRATION, AND THAT THIS ARBITRATION CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF THE EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALL ASPECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
19. . The validity, interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the United States of America and the State of Delaware.
Applicable Law
20. .
Successors
(a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
 
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
(c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, the "" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
Company
21. .
Miscellaneous
(a) Unless otherwise specified, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
:
If to the Executive
[insert name and address]
:
If to the Company
Invitrogen Corporation
5791 Van Allen Way
Carlsbad, CA 92008
(ATTN: General Counsel)
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such federal, state or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
 
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision hereof in any particular instance shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or any other provision thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set his or her hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first written above.
 
 
1.
General Release
Executive unconditionally, irrevocably and absolutely releases and discharges Company, and any parent and subsidiary corporations, divisions and affiliated corporations, partnerships or other affiliated entities of Company, past and present, as well as Company's employees, officers, directors, shareholders, agents, successors and assigns (collectively, "Released Parties") from: all claims related in any way to the transactions or occurrences between them to date to the fullest extent permitted by law, including, but not limited to, Executive's employment with Company, the termination of Executive's employment with Company, and all other losses, liabilities, claims, charges, demands and causes of action, known and unknown, suspected and unsuspected, arising directly or indirectly out of or in any way connected with Executive's employment with Company. This release is intended to have the broadest possible application and includes, but is not limited to, any tort, contract, common law, constitutional or other statutory claims arising under local, state and federal law, including, but not limited to, alleged violations of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended ("ADEA"), all claims for reprisal and retaliation under federal and state law; any claims for back pay, front pay, liquidated damages, compensatory and punitive damages, and injunctive relief; and all claims for attorneys' fees, costs and expenses. However, this general release is not intended to bar or release any claims that, by statute, may not be waived, such as claims for workers' compensation benefits, unemployment insurance benefits, statutory indemnity and any challenge to the validity of Employee's release of claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, as set forth in this Separation Agreement.
1.1.
Executive acknowledges and agrees that Executive may discover facts or law different from, or in addition to, the facts or law that Executive knows or believes to be true with respect to the claims released in this Agreement and agree, nonetheless, that this Agreement and the releases contained in it shall be and remain effective in all respects notwithstanding such different or additional facts or the discovery of them.
1.2.
Executive declares and represents that Executive intends this Agreement to be complete and not subject to any claim of mistake, and that the release herein expresses a full and complete release of all claims, known and unknown, suspected and unsuspected and, regardless of the adequacy or inadequacy of the consideration, Executive intends the release herein to be final and complete. Executive executes this release with the full knowledge that this release covers all possible claims against the Released Parties, to the fullest extent permitted by law.
1.3.
 
Executive waives Executive's right to recovery of any type, including damages or reinstatement, in any administrative or court action, whether state or federal, and whether brought by Executive, or on Executive's behalf, related in any way to the matters released herein.
1.4.
The general release and other provisions contained in this section 1 (the "Release") and the terms of section 2 below shall become effective immediately upon execution of this Agreement by the parties; provided, however, that to the extent the Release and the terms of section 2 relate to age discrimination under the ADEA they shall not be effective until the Effective Date of this Agreement, as described in Section 11.4 below.
1.5.
[If applicable: California Civil Code Section 1542 Waiver. Executive expressly acknowledges and agrees that Executive is waiving all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code. That section provides:
2.
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.]
. Executive represents that, as of the date of this Agreement, Executive has not filed any lawsuits, charges, complaints, petitions, claims or other accusatory pleadings against the Company or the Released Parties in any court or with any governmental agency. Executive further agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Executive will not prosecute, nor allow to be prosecuted on Executive's behalf, in any administrative agency, whether state or federal, or in any court, whether state or federal, any claim or demand of any type related to the matters released above, it being the intention of Executive that with the execution of this release, the Company and the Released Parties will be absolutely, unconditionally and forever discharged of and from all obligations to or on behalf of Executive related in any way to the matters discharged herein.
3.
Representation Concerning Filing of Legal Actions
. Executive agrees not to disparage, defame or make negative or critical statements, written or oral, regarding the personal or business reputation, technology, products, practices or conduct of Company or any of the other Released Parties. In addition, except as required by law, Executive shall not, without the prior written approval of Company's Board of Directors, make any statements regarding Company or the Released Parties that Executive knows, or reasonably should know, would lead to such statements being publicly disseminated in the media.
4.
Nondisparagement
.
5.
Confidentiality and Return of Company Property
. Executive agrees that Executive will not use, remove from Company's premises, make unauthorized copies of or disclose any confidential or proprietary information of Company or any of its parent and subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities, including but not limited to, their trade secrets, copyrighted information, customer lists, any information encompassed in any
5.1.
Confidential or Proprietary Information
 
research and development, reports, work in progress, drawings, software, computer files or models, designs, plans, proposals, marketing and sales programs, financial projections, and all concepts or ideas, materials or information related to the business or sales of Company or any of its parent or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities that has not previously been released to the public by an authorized representative of those companies or that has not otherwise become publicly known other than by reason of any violation by the Executive of this Agreement or any Confidentiality Agreement (as defined in section 5.2, below).
. Executive agrees that the Trade Secrets Policy, the Information and Technology Agreement, the Company's Insider Trading Policy and the surviving provisions of the Change-in-Control Agreement, including but not limited to Section 15 on Nondisparagement and Nonsolicitation, that Executive executed in connection with Executive's employment and any similar policies and agreements Executive entered into with predecessor or subsidiary entities, affiliated companies, partnerships, divisions or other affiliated entities (collectively referred to as the "Confidentiality and Covenants Agreements") shall remain in effect. Executive agrees to continue to comply with the Confidentiality and Covenants Agreements.
5.2.
Continuing Obligations
. By signing this Agreement, Executive represents and warrants that Executive will have returned to Company on or before the Effective Date of this Agreement, all Company and any parent and subsidiary entity, affiliated company, partnership, divisions or other affiliated entity property, including all confidential and proprietary information, as described in the Confidentiality and Covenants Agreements, and all materials and documents containing trade secrets and copyrighted materials, including all copies and excerpts of the same and all digital or electronic files.
5.3.
Return of Company Property
. Due to Executive's former position with Company, Company may require Executive's assistance and cooperation with respect to patents, administrative matters, litigation or government agencies or institutions. Accordingly, Executive agrees that should Company request Executive's assistance with respect to such matters, Executive will fully cooperate and assist Company in responding to and resolving such matters. Company agrees (i) not to make unreasonable requests pursuant to this Section 6, (ii) to take into consideration and take reasonable steps to accommodate the requirements of Executive's employment situation at the time, and (iii) to pay reasonable costs or expenses incurred by Executive in responding to such requests, including, without limitation, any travel or lodging costs or attorneys' fees, as determined by Company in its discretion.
6.
Cooperation
. By entering into this Agreement, the Released Parties make no admission that they have been engaged, or are now engaging, in any unlawful conduct. The parties understand and acknowledge that this Agreement is not an admission of liability and shall not be used or construed as such in any legal, administrative or other similar proceeding.
7.
No Admissions
. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the severance payments and benefits provided pursuant to this Agreement between Executive and the Company is in lieu of any other severance benefits for which Executive may be eligible under any other agreement or Company severance plan or practice.
8.
No Other Severance Benefits
 
[If applicable: . Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or should be construed to contradict, modify or alter the terms and conditions of the Indemnification Agreement between the Executive and the Company, if applicable, any rights of Executive to indemnification under the By-laws of the Company or applicable state law, any rights of Executive under any insurance policy of the Company, any rights of Executive under any plan of the Company adopted pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), or any rights of the Executive to enforce the terms of this Agreement or the Change-in-Control Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or should be construed to preclude Executive from disclosing information required in response to a subpoena duly issued by a court of law or a government agency having jurisdiction or power to compel such disclosure, or from giving full, truthful and cooperative answers in response to a duly issued subpoena or as otherwise may be required by law.]
9.
Indemnification; Insurance; ERISA; and Legal Process
[Depending on Executive's age at time of termination] . This Agreement is intended to satisfy the requirements of the Older Workers' Benefit Protection Act, 29 U.S.C. sec. 626(f). The following general provisions, along with the other provisions of this Agreement, are agreed to for this purpose:
10.
Older Workers' Benefit Protection Act
Executive acknowledges and agrees that Executive has read and understands the terms of this Agreement.
10.1.
Executive acknowledges that this Agreement advises Executive in writing that Executive should consult with an attorney before executing this Agreement, and that Executive has obtained and considered such legal counsel as Executive deems necessary, such that Executive is entering into this Agreement freely, knowingly, and voluntarily.
10.2.
Executive acknowledges that Executive has been given at least twenty-one (21) days in which to consider whether or not to enter into this Agreement. Executive understands that, at Executive's option, Executive may elect not to use the full 21-day period.
10.3.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 1.5 above, this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until the eighth day after Executive signs this Agreement. In other words, Executive may revoke Executive's acceptance of all provisions of this Agreement, except for those rights and obligations that become effective upon execution of this Agreement as provided in Section 1.5 above, within seven (7) days after the date Executive signs it. Executive's revocation must be in writing and received by Company's Senior Vice President of Human Resources by 5:00 p.m. P.S.T. on the seventh day in order to be effective. If Executive does not revoke acceptance within the seven (7) day period, Executive's acceptance of this entire Agreement shall become binding and enforceable on the eighth day ("Effective Date"). The severance payments and benefits described in the Change-in-Control Agreement shall become due and payable on or after the eighth day after Executive signs this Agreement provided it has not been revoked, subject to the terms of the Change-in-Control Agreement.
10.4.
This Agreement does not waive or release any rights or claims that Executive may have under the ADEA that arise after the execution of this Agreement.
10.5.
 
. In the event any provision of this Agreement shall be found unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to allow enforceability of the provision as so limited, it being intended that the parties shall receive the benefits contemplated herein to the fullest extent permitted by law. If a deemed modification is not satisfactory in the judgment of such court, the unenforceable provision shall be deemed deleted, and the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby.
11.
Severability
. The validity, interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the United States of America and the State of Delaware.
12.
Applicable Law
. The parties agree that this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, Executive's or its successors, heirs and/or assigns.
13.
Binding on Successors
. This Agreement may be pled as a full and complete defense to, and may be used as a basis for an injunction against, any action, suit or other proceeding that may be prosecuted, instituted or attempted by Executive in breach of this Agreement. Each party agrees that in the event an action or proceeding is instituted in order to enforce the terms or provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to an award of reasonable costs and attorneys' fees incurred in connection with enforcing this Agreement to the fullest extent permitted by law.
14.
Full Defense
. The parties agree to do all things necessary and to execute all further documents necessary and appropriate to carry out and effectuate the terms and purposes of this Agreement.
15.
Good Faith
THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT HAVE READ THE FOREGOING AGREEMENT AND FULLY UNDERSTAND EACH AND EVERY PROVISION CONTAINED HEREIN. WHEREFORE, THE PARTIES HAVE EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT ON THE DATES SHOWN BELOW AND SHALL BE EFFECTIVE AS TO SEPARATE PORTIONS HEREOF ON THE RESPECTIVE DATES SET FORTH ABOVE.
16.
 


