FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20081021160042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 21, 2008, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended September 30, 2008. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
:
Investor and Financial Contacts
Amanda Clardy
Vice President, Investor Relations
(760) 603-7200
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CARLSBAD, Calif October 21, 2008Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq:IVGN) today announced results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008. Revenues for the third quarter were $362 million, an increase of 15 percent over the $315 million reported for the third quarter of 2007.
"We're extremely pleased with our performance this quarter and our ability to once again deliver value to our shareholders," said Gregory T. Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Invitrogen. "These results demonstrate we can continue to optimize our core business while dedicating sizable resources to make our integration with Applied Biosystems a success."
Third quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.26, which includes $0.06 per share of stock option expensing, $0.12 per share of amortization expense, $0.19 per share of in-process R&D expenses and $0.06 of business integration costs and other expenses. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes these items, diluted earnings per share were $0.69, an increase of 21 percent over the same period last year.
Analysis of Third Quarter 2008 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment and Geographic Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company expects fourth quarter 2008 organic revenue, excluding the impact from currency and acquisitions, to increase in the mid single digits. Non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to increase at a rate of one and a half to two times that of total revenue. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the conference call today.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the company's Investor Relations website at .
www.invitrogen.com
The webcast can be accessed on Invitrogen's website at www.invitrogen.com on the Investor Relations home page. Alternatively, callers may listen to the live conference call by dialing 800.299.0433 (domestic) or 617.801.9712 (international) and use passcode 59590328. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Company's website through Tuesday, November 11, 2008.
About Invitrogen
Invitrogen Corporation (Nasdaq:IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, stem cells, cell therapy, and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, California, and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company employs approximately 4,700 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of approximately $1.3 billion in 2007. For more information, visit .
www.invitrogen.com
 
Statement Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We regularly have reported non-GAAP measures for net income and earnings per share as non-GAAP results. These measures are provided as supplementary information and are not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business results.
We define our non-GAAP results as our GAAP results excluding the after tax impact of the following:
 
Management views these excluded items as not indicative of the operating results or cash flows of its operations and excludes these items as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. This presentation of our non-GAAP results is consistent with how management internally evaluates the performance of its operations.
We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our non-GAAP disclosures and the reconciliation between these presentations to more fully understand our business. Reconciliations between GAAP results and non-GAAP results are presented on the following pages.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release and in today's conference call are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Such statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding Invitrogen's: 1) financial projections, including revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share; 2) plans regarding our share repurchase program; 3) momentum in 2008; 4) plans to sustain and expand organic growth and increase operating margins; and 5) plans to acquire Applied Biosystems, Inc. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to a) the Company's ability to identify promising technology and new product development opportunities; b) the Company's repurchase shares of its common stock at prices that are acceptable to its Board of Directors and management; c) the Company's ability to identify acquisitions and organic growth opportunities that will position it to serve growing markets; and d) the closing conditions in the Agreement & Plan of Merger to acquire Applied Biosystems, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed transaction, Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems have filed a joint proxy statement/prospectus as part of a registration statement on Form S-4 regarding the proposed transaction with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed to shareholders of both companies. A supplement to the definitive joint proxy statement / prospectus has been filed with the SEC and mailed to stockholders of both companies. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus in its entirety, including the supplement thereto, because it contains important information about Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems and the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, including the supplement thereto, and other documents at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, including the supplement thereto, and other relevant documents may also be obtained free of charge from Invitrogen by directing such requests to: Invitrogen Corporation, Attention: Investor Relations, 5791 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, CA 92008, and from Applied Biosystems Inc. at: Applied Biosystems Inc., Attention: Investor Relations 850 Lincoln Center Drive, Foster City, CA 94404.
Participants in the Solicitation
Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of their management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information concerning all of the participants in the solicitation is included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus relating to the proposed merger. This document is available free of charge from several sources: the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at ; Invitrogen Investor Relations, telephone: 760-603-7200; Invitrogen's investor relations website at ; Applied Biosystems Investor Relations, telephone (650) 554-2449; or Applied Biosystems investor relations website at .
http://www.sec.gov
www.invitrogen.com
www.appliedbiosystems.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


