FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20080910124206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(760) 603-7200
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 9, 2008, Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or the Company, Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, or Atom Acquisition, and Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation), a Delaware corporation, or ABI, entered into Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Amendment, to the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 11, 2008, or the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, ABI will be merged with and into Atom Acquisition and Atom Acquisition will be the surviving corporation and the Company's wholly owned subsidiary. Defined terms, unless defined herein, will have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Amendment.
The Amendment provides that the ratio by which each option to purchase shares of ABI common stock will become exercisable for shares of the Company's common stock will be the product of (1) the Stock Option Conversion Fraction (as defined below) multiplied by (2) the number of shares of ABI common stock which could have been obtained prior to the effective time of the merger upon the exercise of each such stock option (rounded down to the nearest whole share), at an exercise price per share (rounded up to the nearest cent) equal to the exercise price for each such share of ABI common stock subject to a stock option divided by the Stock Option Conversion Fraction, and all references to ABI in each such option will be deemed to refer to the Company, where appropriate. "Stock Option Conversion Fraction" means (1) if the 20-day VWAP is $46 per share or greater, 0.8261 or (2) if the 20-day VWAP is less than $46 per share, a fraction, (x) the numerator of which is $38 and (y) the denominator of which is the greater of (A) $43.69 and (B) the 20-day VWAP, in each case, subject to adjustment.
The Amendment also provides for certain terms of ABI's Performance Unit Bonus Plan and Incentive Compensation Program for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009, or the 2009 incentive compensation program. Pursuant to the terms of the Amendment, prior to the effective time of the merger, ABI's board of directors will adopt the 2009 incentive compensation program, which will provide that each participant who is employed by ABI at the effective time of the merger, or an Employee Participant, will be entitled to receive an amount of incentive compensation equal to the following amount: (1) such Employee Participant's eligible earnings multiplied by (2) (x) such Employee Participant's incentive target percentage (which will be the same percentage as the percentage applicable to other employees in the Employee Participant's grade, it being understood and agreed that the percentage applicable to each grade will be the same as the percentage for such grade used for the 2008 incentive compensation program and the percentage for each Employee Participant will be the same as under the 2008 incentive compensation program unless the Employee Participant has changed grades for purposes of the 2009 incentive compensation program) multiplied by (y) such Employee Participant's applicable business modifier which will be established, by ABI as a percentage ranging from 0% to 150% (with 100% as the applicable modifier for performance equal to the 2009 incentive compensation program performance targets; provided, however, that a modifier of 100% (or greater) can be achieved with underachievement of some targets balanced in some areas with overachievement in others) and will be based on certain established performance criteria; multiplied by (z) the Employee Participant's applicable personal modifier (i.e., the individual's performance, expressed as a percentage ranging from 0% to 150% based on individual contribution). Payments under the 2009 incentive compensation program will be made on March 15, 2009 if the merger is completed prior to February 15, 2009, or within 30 days of the completion of the merger if the merger is completed after February 15, 2009. The business modifiers will be based on the performance period commencing on July 1, 2008 and ending on the last day of the full fiscal
quarter ending immediately prior to the completion of the merger and utilize calculation methods used for the 2008 incentive compensation program. The personal modifiers will be determined by ABI as close in time as reasonably practical prior to the effective time of the merger.
The amount of eligible earnings will be equal to the aggregate amount of the Employee Participant's earnings (which in general will include the employee's base salary and additional compensation for overtime but not bonuses paid pursuant to the 2008 incentive compensation plan or otherwise or other types of benefits or payments) paid for the period commencing July 1, 2008 and ending on the earlier of: (1) the date of such Employee Participant's termination of employment, provided he is employed by ABI as of the completion of the merger; (2) December 31, 2008, if the completion of the merger occurs on or before December 31, 2008 provided he is employed by ABI as of December 31, 2008; and (3) the completion of the merger, if it occurs after December 31, 2008 provided he is employed as of the completion of the merger. If the merger is completed on or before February 15, 2009, the Company will pay amounts due under the 2009 incentive compensation plan no later than March 15, 2009, for Employee Participants subject to Section 409A of the Code (and as soon as administratively practicable thereafter for non-US Employee Participants who are not subject to Section 409A of the Code); provided that if the effective time of the merger occurs after February 15, 2009, then the Company will make all payments pursuant to the 2009 incentive compensation plan 30 calendar days after the completion of the merger.
The 2009 incentive compensation plan will terminate on the later of (1) December 31, 2008, if the effective time of the merger occurs prior to such date or (2) the effective time of the merger, at which time Employee Participants will begin participating in the corresponding plan of the Company, provided that Employee Participants will not receive credit or be paid compensation under the 2009 incentive compensation plan or any corresponding Company plan for the same eligible earnings or period of service.
The Amendment further provides that the name of the surviving company may be either "Applied Biosystems Inc." or such other name that is mutually acceptable to the Company and ABI prior to the time of the merger.
The foregoing description of the Amendment and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated by reference herein and the full text of the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K/A on June 23, 2008.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and the Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created thereby. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements about the ability of the Company and ABI to complete the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and the Amendment. A number of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such
risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risks that are described from time to time in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008 and ABI's reports filed with the SEC, including ABI's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2008, as such reports may have been amended. This Current Report on Form 8-K speaks only as of its date, and the Company disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed transaction, the Company and ABI have filed a preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus as part of a registration statement on Form S-4 regarding the proposed transaction with the SEC. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ABI AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. The final joint proxy statement/prospectus will be mailed to stockholders of the Company and ABI. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents when filed with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents may also be obtained free of charge from the Company by directing such requests to: Invitrogen Corporation, 5791 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, CA 92008, Attention: Investor Relations or from ABI by directing such requests to: Applied Biosystems Inc., 301 Merritt 7, Norwalk, CT 06851, Attention: Investor Relations.
Participants in the Solicitation
The Company and ABI and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of their management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information concerning all of the participants in the solicitation will be included in the proxy statement relating to the proposed merger when it becomes available. Each of these documents is, or will be, available free of charge at the SEC's Web site at http://www.sec.gov and from Company Investor Relations, telephone: 760-268-7482 or on the Company's website at http://www.invitrogen.com or ABI's website: at http://www.appliedbiosystems.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Invitrogen Corporation, Atom Acquisition, LLC and Applied Biosystems Inc., dated as of September 9, 2008.
Exhibit 2.1 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
INVITROGEN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
 
Date: September 10, 2008

EXHIBIT 2.1
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this "") to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 11, 2008 (the ""), by and among Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (""), and Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the ""), is made and entered into by Parent, Merger Sub and the Company as of the 9th day of September, 2008.
Amendment
Merger Agreement
Parent
Merger Sub
Company
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will be merged with and into Merger Sub, with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 7.4 of the Merger Agreement, the Merger Agreement may be amended or supplemented in writing by the Company and Parent; and
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend the Merger Agreement as set forth below;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. . Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Merger Agreement.
Defined Terms
Section 2. . Section 2.4(a) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 2.4(a)
"Section 2.4 .
Treatment of Equity Compensation Grants
(a) . At the Effective Time, each outstanding unexpired and unexercised option to purchase or acquire a share of Company Common Stock under the Company Equity Plans (each, a "") shall vest and become fully exercisable, whether or not then vested or subject to any performance condition that has not been satisfied. At the Effective Time, each Company Stock Option shall be converted into an option to purchase the number of shares of Parent Common Stock equal to the product of (x) the Stock Option Conversion Fraction (as defined in this Section 2.4(a)) multiplied by (y) the number of shares of Company Common Stock which could have been obtained prior to the Effective Time upon the exercise of each such Company Stock Option (rounded down to the nearest whole share), at an exercise price per share (rounded up to the nearest cent) equal to the exercise price for each such share of Company Common Stock subject to a Company Stock Option divided by the Stock Option Conversion Fraction, and all references to the Company in each such option shall be deemed to refer to Parent, where appropriate. The other terms of such Company Stock Options shall continue to apply in accordance with their terms, including pursuant to such preexisting terms and conditions, , , that Parent shall treat each Company Stock Option as fully vested and exercisable. Each Company Stock Option converted pursuant to the terms of this Section 2.4(a) shall be referred to as a "." In connection with the issuance of Parent Exchange Options, Parent shall reserve for issuance the number of shares of Parent Common Stock that will become subject to Parent Exchange Options pursuant to this Section 2.4(a). As promptly as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, Parent shall issue to each holder of an outstanding Parent Exchange Option a document evidencing the foregoing assumption by Parent. Parent shall file a registration statement on Form S-8 (or any successor or other appropriate form that Parent is eligible to use) under the Securities Act on the Closing Date with respect to the shares of Parent Common Stock
Stock Options
Company Stock Option
provided
however
Parent Exchange Option
subject to Parent Exchange Options and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to remain effective until the exercise or expiration of the Parent Exchange Options. For purposes of this Section 2.4(a), the "" shall mean (i) if the Twenty-Day VWAP (as defined in Section 2.1(a)) is $46 per share of Parent Common Stock or greater, 0.8261 or (ii) if the Twenty-Day VWAP is less than $46 per share of Parent Common Stock, a fraction, (x) the numerator of which is $38 and (y) the denominator of which is the greater of (A) $43.69 and (B) the Twenty-Day VWAP, in each case, subject to adjustment along with the Exchange Ratio in accordance with Section 2.1(d).
Stock Option Conversion Fraction
The number of shares subject to any Parent Exchange Option and the exercise price per share of such Parent Exchange Option shall be determined in a manner which would not result in the conversion of Company Stock Options into Parent Exchange Options being treated as a new grant of stock options under Section 409A of the Code, and the Company and Parent shall agree upon any adjustments to this Section 2.4(a) necessary to avoid such new grant of stock options."
Section 3. . Section 5.7(f) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.7(f)
"(f) Parent shall honor in accordance with their terms, and, on and after the Effective Time, shall make all payments pursuant to, without offset, deduction, counterclaim, interruption, or deferment, (i) the Company Performance Unit Bonus Plan, to the extent not paid by the Company at or prior to the Effective Time, (ii) the Company's Incentive Compensation Program for the Company's fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 (the ""), consistent with past practice, to the extent not paid by the Company prior to the Effective Time; and (iii) the Company's Incentive Compensation Program for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009 (the ""), consistent with past practice; , in the case of clause (iii) of this Section 5.7(f):
2008 ICP
2009 ICP
provided that
(1) prior to the Effective Time, the Company Board, or the Company's Management Resources Committee (the ""), shall adopt the 2009 ICP consistent with this Section 5.7(f). The Board or the MRC, as applicable, shall act in good faith and consistent with past practice to determine the 2009 ICP Company performance targets based on the terms of the 2009 ICP and this Section 5.7(f) (the "");
MRC
2009 Performance Targets
(2) the 2009 ICP shall provide that each participant who is employed by the Company at the Effective Time (the "") shall be entitled to receive an amount of incentive compensation equal to the following amount: (A) such Employee Participant's Eligible Earnings (as defined in clause (4) below), multiplied by (B) (I) such Employee Participant's incentive target percentage (which shall be the same percentage as the percentage applicable to other employees in the Employee Participant's grade, it being understood and agreed that the percentage applicable to each grade shall be the same as the percentage for such grade used for the 2008 ICP and the percentage for each Employee Participant shall be the same as under the 2008 ICP unless the Employee Participant has changed grades for purposes of the 2009 ICP) (the "") multiplied by (II) such Employee Participant's applicable business modifier which shall be established, by the Company or the MRC, as applicable, as a percentage ranging from 0% to 150% (with 100% as the applicable modifier for performance equal to the 2009 ICP Performance Targets; , , that a modifier of 100% (or greater) can be achieved with underachievement of some targets in some areas balanced with overachievement in others) and shall be based on performance criteria established pursuant to clause (1) above, subject to clause (3) below; multiplied by (III) the Employee Participant's applicable personal modifier (i.e., the individual's performance, expressed as a percentage ranging from 0% to 150% based on individual contribution), subject to clause (3) below;
Employee Participant
Incentive Percentage
provided
however
(3) for purposes of the business and personal modifiers described in clause (2) above, the 2009 ICP shall provide that (a) the business modifiers (i) will be based on the performance period
 
commencing on July 1, 2008 and ending on the last day of the full fiscal quarter ending immediately prior to the Effective Time, (ii) for purposes of the 2009 Performance Targets use four financial targets rather than the five targets used for the 2008 ICP, and (iii) utilize calculation methods used for the 2008 ICP, and (b) the personal modifiers will be determined by the Company as close in time as reasonably practical prior to the Effective Time;
(4) for purposes of clause (2) above, the amount of eligible earnings (determined in a manner consistent with the 2008 ICP and this clause (4)) shall be equal to the aggregate amount of the Employee Participant's earnings (which in general shall include the employee's base salary and additional compensation for overtime but not bonuses paid pursuant to the 2008 ICP or otherwise or other types of benefits or payments) paid for the period commencing July 1, 2008 and ending on the earlier of: (I) the date of such Employee Participant's termination of employment, provided he is employed by Company as of the Effective Time, (II) December 31, 2008, if the Effective Time occurs on or before December 31, 2008 provided he is employed by Company as of December 31, 2008, and (III) the Effective Time, if the Effective Time occurs after December 31, 2008 provided he is employed as of the Effective Time (the "");
Eligible Earnings
(5) if the Effective Time occurs on or before February 15, 2009, Parent shall pay amounts due under the 2009 ICP no later than March 15, 2009, for Employee Participants subject to Section 409A of the Code (and as soon as administratively practicable thereafter for non-US Employee Participants who are not subject to Section 409A of the Code); if the Effective Time occurs after February 15, 2009, then Parent shall make all payments pursuant to the 2009 ICP within thirty (30) calendar days after the Effective Time;
provided that
(6) the 2009 ICP will terminate on the later of (a) December 31, 2008, if the Effective Time occurs prior to such date or (b) the Effective Time, at which time Employee Participants will begin participating in the corresponding plan of Parent (the ""), Employee Participants shall not receive credit or be paid compensation under the 2009 ICP and the New Plan or any corresponding Parent plan for the same Eligible Earnings or period of service. The Company will review with Parent communications with the Employee Participants regarding the 2009 ICP; and
New Plan
provided that
(7) for purposes of Parent's obligations pursuant to Section 5.7(a)(i) to Company Employees, with respect to bonus incentives, such obligations shall be to provide, for the period commencing on January 1, 2009 and ending on December 31, 2009, each Employee Participant with a bonus opportunity that is not less favorable than those provided to Company Employees prior to the Effective Time, which is defined as (a) such person's Incentive Percentage that is no less favorable than in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, and (b) the use of business and personal modifiers which are determined in good faith."
Section 4. . Section 5.13 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.13
"Section 5.13 If requested by either the Company or Parent no later than twenty (20) Business Days prior to the Closing Date, the Company and Parent will each use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to the other a letter from their respective independent accountants dated as close as practicable to the Closing Date in form reasonably satisfactory to the recipient and customary in scope for comfort letters delivered by independent accountants in connection with registration statements on Form S-4 under the Securities Act."
Accountants' Comfort Letters
.
Section 5. . Section 5.18 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.18
"Section 5.18 . Prior to the Effective Time, Parent shall take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable (a) to form a Delaware
Parent Name Change
 
corporation, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of which shall be owned by Parent (the ""), and (b) immediately prior to the Effective Time, to merge the Name Change Sub with and into Parent pursuant to Section 253 of the DGCL, with Parent surviving, for the sole purpose of changing the name of Parent to either (1) "Applied Biosystems, Inc." or (2) another name that is mutually acceptable to the Company and Parent (the "")."
Name Change Sub
Parent Name Change
Section 6. .
No Other Amendments to the Merger Agreement
6.1 On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Merger Agreement to "this Agreement," "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" or words of similar import shall mean and be a reference to the Merger Agreement as amended hereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, references to the date of the Merger Agreement, as amended hereby, shall in all instances continue to refer to June 11, 2008, references to "the date hereof" and "the date of this Agreement" shall continue to refer to June 11, 2008, and references to the date of the Amendment and "as of the date of the Amendment" shall refer to September 9, 2008.
6.2 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect. This Amendment is limited precisely as written and shall not be deemed to be an amendment to any other term or condition of the Merger Agreement or any of the documents referred to therein.
Section 7. . This Amendment shall form a part of the Merger Agreement for all purposes, and each party hereto and thereto shall be bound hereby. From and after the execution of this Amendment by the parties hereto, any reference to the Merger Agreement shall be deemed a reference to the Merger Agreement as amended hereby. This Amendment shall be deemed to be in full force and effect from and after the execution of this Amendment by the parties hereto.
Effect of Amendment
Section 8. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
Section 9. . This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (including by facsimile), all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart.
Counterparts
Section 10. . The descriptive headings of the several Sections of this Amendment were formulated, used and inserted in this Amendment for convenience only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed or caused this Amendment to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized all as of the date first written above.
 
 


