FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20081015170850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 15, 2008, Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or the Company, Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, or Atom LLC, Atom Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Atom Acquisition, or Atom Corporation, and Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation), a Delaware corporation, or ABI, entered into Amendment No. 2 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Amendment, to the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, dated June 11, 2008, and amended as of September 9, 2008. Defined terms, unless defined herein, will have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Amendment.
Among other things, the Amendment eliminates a condition to closing requiring that the parties receive certain opinions of their respective counsel as to the tax treatment of the transaction. Under the prior terms of the Merger Agreement, completion of the merger, or the Merger, was conditioned on the receipt of an opinion from counsel to each of the Company and ABI to the effect that the Merger will be treated as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and that each of the Company and ABI will be treated as a party to that reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The Amendment also modified the structure of the Merger so that (1) Atom Acquisition Corporation will merge into ABI, with ABI continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Atom Acquisition, LLC and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen, and (2) immediately thereafter, ABI will merge into Atom Acquisition, LLC, with Atom Acquisition, LLC continuing as the surviving company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen. This structure will ensure that, if the Merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization, the Merger will not be taxable to ABI or the Company, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group. The Amendment is necessary so that the committed financing for the Merger, together with cash on hand, will be sufficient to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration and all related costs and expenses since the transaction was not expected to be taxable to ABI or the Company.
The foregoing description of the Amendment and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated by reference herein and the full text of the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K/A on June 23, 2008 and Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K/A on September 10, 2008.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 - Other Events
On October 15, 2008, the Company and ABI issued a press release announcing, among other things, the signing of the Amendment, that the Company has postponed its special meeting of stockholders until October 28, 2008 and that ABI will convene its October 16, 2008 special meeting for the sole purpose of adjourning the meeting until October 28, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
On or about October 16, 2008, the Company and ABI will mail to their respective stockholders Supplement No. 1, dated October 15, 2008, to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, dated September 10, 2008, or the supplement, which describes the Amendment and provides updated information regarding the potential tax consequences of the Merger. The foregoing description of the supplement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the supplement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and the Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created thereby. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements about the ability of the Company and ABI to complete the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and the amendments thereto. A number of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risks that are described from time to time in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008 and ABI's reports filed with the SEC, including ABI's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2008, as such reports may have been amended. This Current Report on Form 8-K speaks only as of its date, and the Company disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed transaction, Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems have filed a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus as part of a registration statement on Form S-4 regarding the proposed transaction with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed to shareholders of both companies. A supplement to the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has also been filed with the SEC and mailed to stockholders of both companies. Investors and security holders are urged to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus in its entirety, including the supplement thereto, because it contains important information about Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems and the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, including the supplement thereto, and other documents at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, including the supplement thereto, and other relevant documents may also be obtained free of charge from Invitrogen by directing such requests to: Invitrogen Corporation, Attention: Investor Relations, 5791 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, CA 92008, and from Applied Biosystems Inc. at: Applied Biosystems Inc., Attention: Investor Relations 850 Lincoln Center Drive, Foster City, CA 94404.
Participants in the Solicitation
The Company and ABI and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of their management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information concerning all of the participants in the solicitation will be included in the proxy statement relating to the proposed merger when it becomes available. Each of these documents is, or will be, available free of charge at the SEC's Web site at http://www.sec.gov and from Company Investor Relations, telephone: 760-268-7482 or on the Company's website at http://www.invitrogen.com or ABI's website: at
http://www.appliedbiosystems.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 - Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 15, 2008

Exhibit 2.1
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 (this "") to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended on September 9, 2008 (the ""), by and among Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned Subsidiary of Parent (""), and Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the ""), is made and entered into as of the 15th day of October, 2008 by Parent, Acquisition Sub, the Company and Atom Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly-owned Subsidiary of Acquisition Sub that will become a party to the Merger Agreement by virtue of this Amendment (""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Merger Agreement, as modified by this Amendment.
Amendment
Merger Agreement
Parent
Acquisition Sub
Company
Merger Sub
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 7.4 of the Merger Agreement, the Merger Agreement may be amended or supplemented in writing by the Company and Parent; and
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend the Merger Agreement to, among other things, (i) modify the structure of the Merger so that, at the Effective Time, Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the Surviving Corporation in the Merger and, immediately thereafter, the Surviving Corporation will be merged with and into Acquisition Sub, with Acquisition Sub continuing as the Surviving Company in the Second Merger, (ii) eliminate the provision in Section 6.1(g) of the Merger Agreement which provided that, as a condition to the obligations of Parent and the Company to complete the Merger, each of Parent and Company was to have received a Tax Opinion from its respective Tax Counsel to the effect that the Merger will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and each of Parent and the Company will be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code and (iii) make such other changes as are necessary or appropriate in light of the foregoing amendments; and
WHEREAS, the parties desire that the amendments to the Merger Agreement provided for in this Amendment will, among other things, reflect the mutual intention of the parties to restructure the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement to ensure that except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, neither the Merger nor the Second Merger will result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. . The preamble to the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Preamble
"AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated as of June 11, 2008 (as amended through the date hereof, the ""), among Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned Subsidiary of Parent (""), Atom Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly-owned Subsidiary of Acquisition Sub (""), and Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Parent
Acquisition Sub
Merger Sub
Company
WHEREAS, the respective Boards of Directors of Parent, the Company and Merger Sub, Acquisition Sub, acting in its capacity as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, and Parent, acting in its capacity as the sole member of Acquisition Sub, have each determined that it is advisable and fair to and in the best interests of Parent, the Company, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub, respectively, and the stockholders of Parent, Acquisition Sub, and the Company and the sole member of Merger Sub, respectively, for Parent and the Company to engage in a business combination in order to advance their respective long-term strategic business interests; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the foregoing, at the Effective Time (as defined in Section 1.3) the parties hereto intend to effect a merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company (the ""), with the Company continuing as the Surviving Corporation (as defined in Section 1.1), all in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "") and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, and to effect a merger of the Surviving Corporation with and into Acquisition Sub (the ""), with Acquisition Sub continuing as the Surviving Company (as defined in Section 1.1) all in accordance with the DGCL and the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the ""); and
Merger
DGCL
Second Merger
DLLCA
WHEREAS, prior to the Effective Time, the Company has redeemed all of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company's Celera Group Common Stock (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) in exchange for shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of Celera Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), as a result of which the Company's Celera Group tracking stock business (the "") has been split off and, as of immediately following such split-off, was owned by the former holders of the Celera Group Common Stock (the ""); and
Celera Corporation
Celera Group
Celera Separation
WHEREAS, the respective Boards of Directors of Parent, Merger Sub, and the Company have approved and declared the Merger advisable, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, and Parent, acting in its capacity as the sole member of Acquisition Sub, and the Board of Directors of Merger Sub, have approved and declared the Second Merger advisable, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, subject to the fiduciary duties of the Company's Board of Directors under applicable Laws (as defined in Section 3.7(a)) and Section 5.4(d) of this Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company has resolved to recommend to the Company's stockholders the approval and adoption of this Agreement and the approval of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Parent has approved, and resolved to recommend to Parent's stockholders the approval of, the issuance of shares of Parent Common Stock (as defined in Section 4.2(a)) in connection with the Merger (the ""); and
Stock Issuance
WHEREAS, immediately following the execution of Amendment No. 2 to this Agreement, Acquisition Sub, as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, will act by written consent to approve and adopt this Agreement and approve the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, Parent, Acquisition Sub, Merger Sub, and the Company wish to make certain representations, warranties, covenants, and agreements in connection with the Merger and to prescribe certain conditions to the consummation of the Merger as set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, for United States federal income Tax purposes, the Merger is intended to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and this Agreement is hereby adopted as a plan of reorganization for purposes of Section 368 of the Code; and
Code
 
WHEREAS, it is intended that if the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, the Merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and
WHEREAS, terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Section 8.14, unless otherwise noted.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, and intending to be legally bound hereby, Parent, Acquisition Sub, Merger Sub, and the Company agree as follows:"
Section 2. . Section 1.1 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.1
"Section 1.1 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and in accordance with the DGCL, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company at the Effective Time. Following the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall cease, and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation (the "") and shall succeed to and assume all the rights and obligations of Merger Sub in accordance with the DGCL. At the Effective Time, immediately after the Merger, the Surviving Corporation shall be merged with and into Acquisition Sub pursuant to the Second Merger. Following the Second Merger, the separate corporate existence of the Surviving Corporation shall cease, and Acquisition Sub shall continue as the surviving company (the "") and shall succeed to and assume all the rights and obligations of the Company in accordance with the DGCL and the DLLCA."
The Merger
Surviving Corporation
Surviving Company
Section 3. . Section 1.3 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.3
"Section 1.3 . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, as promptly as practicable on the Closing Date, the parties shall file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a certificate of merger giving effect to the Merger (the ""), executed and acknowledged by the parties in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL, and as promptly as practicable on or after the Closing Date, shall make all other filings or recordings required under the DGCL. The Merger shall become effective upon the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, or at such later date and time as Parent and the Company shall agree and shall specify in the Certificate of Merger (the date and time that the Merger becomes effective being the ""). Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, immediately after the filing of the Certificate of Merger on the Closing Date, the parties shall file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a second certificate of merger with respect to the Second Merger (the ""), executed and acknowledged by the parties in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL and the DLLCA, and as promptly as practicable on or after the Closing Date, shall make all other filings or recordings required under the DGCL and the DLLCA. The Second Merger shall become effective upon the filing of the Second Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, and shall be deemed to have occurred at the Effective Time, immediately after the consummation of the Merger."
Effective Time
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
Second Certificate of Merger
Section 4. . Section 1.4 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.4
"Section 1.4 . At and after the Effective Time, the Merger shall have the effects set forth in this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the DGCL. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities and duties of the Company and Merger Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation. At and after the effective time of the Second Merger, the Second
Effects of the Merger and the Second Merger
 
Merger shall have the effects set forth in this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the DGCL and the DLLCA. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and subject thereto, at the effective time of the Second Merger all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Surviving Corporation and the Acquisition Sub shall vest in the Surviving Company, and all debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation and the Acquisition Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Company."
Section 5. . Section 1.5 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.5
"Section 1.5 .
Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Surviving Corporation; Certificate of Formation and Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Surviving Company
(a) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the Effective Time, the certificate of incorporation of Merger Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DGCL or therein, except that as of the Effective Time, Paragraph 1 of the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation shall be amended to reflect the name of the Company (or a variation thereof) as the name of the Surviving Corporation.
(b) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the Effective Time, the by-laws of Merger Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall become the by-laws of the Surviving Corporation, until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DGCL, the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation and such by-laws.
(c) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the effective time of the Second Merger, the certificate of formation of Acquisition Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, shall be the certificate of formation of the Surviving Company until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DLLCA or therein, except that as of the Effective Time, Paragraph 1 of the certificate of formation of the Surviving Company shall be amended to reflect the name of the Surviving Corporation (or a variation thereof) as the name of the Surviving Company.
(d) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the effective time of the Second Merger, the limited liability company agreement of Acquisition Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, shall become the limited liability company agreement of the Surviving Company, until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DLLCA, the certificate of formation of the Surviving Company and such limited liability company agreement."
Section 6. . Section 1.6 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.6
"Section 1.6 . At the Effective Time, the directors of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation, each to hold office in accordance with the Surviving Corporation's certificate of incorporation and by-laws, in each case, as in effect from time to time. Parent, as the sole member of Acquisition Sub immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, shall, from and after the effective time of the Second Merger, continue to be the sole member of, and shall continue to manage, the Surviving Company, in accordance with the Surviving Company's limited liability company agreement and certificate of formation, in each case, as in effect from time to time."
Directors of Surviving Corporation; Sole Member of the Surviving Company
Section 7. . Section 1.7 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.7
"Section 1.7 . The officers of the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time, from and after the Effective Time, shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation, until the earlier of their death, resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be. The officers of the Surviving Corporation
Officers of Surviving Corporation and Surviving Company
 
immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, from and after the effective time of the Second Merger, shall be the officers of the Surviving Company, until the earlier of their death, resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be."
Section 8. . Section 1.8 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.8
"Section 1.8 . If, at any time after the Effective Time or the effective time of the Second Merger, the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company, respectively, shall consider or be advised that any deeds, bills of sale, assignments, assurances or any other actions or things are necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm of record or otherwise in the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company its right, title or interest in, to or under any of the rights, properties or assets of either of the Company or Merger Sub acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving Corporation as a result of, or in connection with, the Merger, or any of the rights, properties or assets of either of the Surviving Corporation or Acquisition Sub acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving Company as a result of, or in connection with, the Second Merger, or otherwise to carry out this Agreement, the officers and directors of the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company, as applicable, shall be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of either the Company or Merger Sub, or the Surviving Company or Acquisition Sub, as applicable, all such deeds, bills of sale, assignments and assurances and to take and do, in the name and on behalf of any of such corporations or otherwise, all such other actions and things as may be necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm any and all right, title and interest in, to and under such rights, properties or assets in the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company, as applicable, or otherwise to carry out this Agreement."
Subsequent Actions
Section 9. . Section 2.1(c) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 2.1(c)
"(c) . Each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Merger Sub shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation."
Conversion of Merger Sub Shares
Section 10. Section 2.1 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new subclause (f) at the end thereof:
Amendment to Add New Section 2.1(f).
"(f) . At the effective time of the Second Merger, by virtue of the Second Merger and without any action on the part of the Surviving Corporation or Acquisition Sub or the holders of any securities of the Surviving Corporation or Acquisition Sub: (i) each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist, and no consideration shall be issued or delivered in exchange therefor and (ii) each issued and outstanding limited liability company interest of Acquisition Sub shall be converted into one validly issued limited liability company interest of the Surviving Company."
Effect on Stock of Second Merger
Section 11. . References to the "Surviving Company" in Section 2.3(d) of the Merger Agreement are hereby amended to include references to the "Surviving Corporation."
Amendment to Section 2.3(d)
Section 12. . Section 2.3(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 2.3(g)
"(g) . At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed, and there shall be no further registration of transfers on the transfer books of the Surviving Corporation of the Company Common Stock which was outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, Certificates or Company Book-Entry Shares are presented to the Surviving Corporation, the Surviving Company or the Exchange Agent for any reason, they shall be cancelled and exchanged as provided in this Section 2.3, except as otherwise provided by Section 2.1(e)."
Closing of Transfer Books
 
Section 13. . Section 2.3(h) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the words "Acquisition Sub, the Surviving Corporation," after the word "Merger Sub" in the first sentence of Section 2.3(h).
Amendment to Section 2.3(h)
Section 14. . Section 3.15(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 3.15(g)
"(g) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has: (A) agreed to make or is required to make any adjustment for a taxable period ending after the Effective Time under Section 481(a) of the Code by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise, except where such adjustments do not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Company; (B) constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (I) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement or (II) in a distribution which could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) in connection with the Merger and the Second Merger; (C) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance (other than potential circumstances relating to the "continuity of interest requirement" under the Code) that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger and the Second Merger from together qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; or (D) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code."
Section 15. . The words "Parent and Merger Sub represent and warrant to the Company as follows:" at the end of the preamble to Article IV of the Merger Agreement are hereby deleted and replaced in their entirety with the following:
Amendment to Article IV
"Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub represent and warrant to the Company as follows:"
Section 16. . The third sentence of Section 4.1(b) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to add the word "Acquisition Sub," at the beginning of such sentence.
Amendment to Section 4.1(b)
Section 17. . Section 4.3(a) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 4.3(a)
"(a) Each of Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub has the requisite corporate or limited liability company power and authority to enter into this Agreement, subject to receipt of Parent Stockholder Approval (as defined in Section 4.19 of this Agreement), and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger and the Second Merger. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by the Board of Directors of Parent and Merger Sub, by Acquisition Sub, acting in its capacity as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, and by Parent, acting in its capacity as the sole member of Acquisition Sub, and, except for (i) the Parent Stockholder Approval, (ii) the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and (iii) the filing of the Second Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, no other corporate proceedings on the part of Parent or Merger Sub are necessary to authorize the consummation of the Merger, the Second Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The Board of Directors of Parent has determined (x) that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are fair to and in the best interest of Parent and its stockholders and (y) to recommend that such stockholders vote in favor of the approval of the Stock Issuance. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub and, assuming this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the other parties hereto, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub, enforceable against Parent, Acquisition Sub, and
 
Merger Sub in accordance with its terms (except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other Laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies)."
Section 18. . Section 4.15(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 4.15(g)
"(g) Neither Parent nor any of its Subsidiaries has: (A) agreed to make or is required to make any adjustment for a taxable period ending after the Effective Time under Section 481(a) of the Code by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise, except where such adjustments do not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Parent; (B) constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (I) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement or (II) in a distribution which could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) in connection with the Merger and the Second Merger; (C) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance (other than potential circumstances relating to the "continuity of interest requirement" under the Code) that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger and the Second Merger from together qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; or (D) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code."
Section 19. . Section 4.15(l) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendments to Section 4.15(l)
"All of the outstanding equity securities of Merger Sub are owned directly by Acquisition Sub. Merger Sub has outstanding no option, warrant, right, or any other agreement pursuant to which any person other than Parent or Acquisition Sub may acquire any equity security of Merger Sub. Merger Sub owns no assets, and has engaged in no activities, other than those necessary to effectuate the Merger. All of the outstanding equity securities of Acquisition Sub are owned directly by Parent. Acquisition Sub has outstanding no option, warrant, right, or any other agreement pursuant to which any person other than Parent may acquire any equity security of Acquisition Sub. Acquisition Sub owns no assets, and has engaged in no activities, other than those necessary to effectuate the Second Merger. No election has been filed to cause Acquisition Sub to be classified as a corporation for federal Tax purposes."
Section 20. . References in Section 4.23 to "Merger Sub" are hereby replaced with references to "Acquisition Sub." In addition, the words ", the Surviving Corporation" are hereby added to the fifth sentence of Section 4.23 after the words "expected to be sufficient for Parent."
Amendments to Section 4.23
Section 21. . Section 5.2 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.2
"Section 5.2 .
Tax-Free Treatment of the Merger
(a) The parties to this Agreement intend that, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, the Merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes,
(b) Neither the Company nor Parent shall, nor shall they permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, take or cause to be taken any action (including agreeing to any transaction or entering into any agreement), except with respect to the Celera Separation, that would result in the Merger and the Second Merger failing, as an integrated transaction, to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; or take or cause to take any action that would prevent the merger of Merger Sub into Company from
 
qualifying as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
(c) Parent and the Company shall use their commercially reasonable efforts, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to use all commercially reasonable efforts, to cause (i) the Merger and the Second Merger, as an integrated transaction, to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and (ii) the merger of Merger Sub into Company to qualify as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, including providing the representations, covenants and certificates referred to in Sections 5.5(d)(iii) and 6.1(g) of this Agreement."
Section 22. . Section 5.5(d)(iii) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.5(d)(iii)
"(iii) (A) cooperate with each other in obtaining a written opinion (each such opinion, a "") of its respective legal counsel, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, in the case of the Company, and DLA Piper LLP (US), in the case of Parent (each such counsel, ""), dated as of the Effective Time, to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations, assumptions and qualifications set forth in such opinion, the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and Parent and the Company each will be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code; and (B), cooperate with each other in obtaining a written opinion of its respective legal counsel (each such opinion, a ""), dated as of the Effective Time, to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations, assumptions and qualifications set forth in such opinion, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, neither the Merger nor the Second Merger will result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In the event that Tax Counsel cannot conclude that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, the Company and Parent shall cooperate with each other in obtaining a Tax Opinion of its respective Tax Counsel, dated as of the Effective Time, to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations, assumptions and qualifications set forth in such opinion, the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, should be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and, if they are so treated, Parent and the Company each will be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code. In each case, each of the Company, Parent, Merger Sub and Acquisition Sub shall cooperate with each Tax Counsel and shall deliver to each Tax Counsel for purposes of each Tax Opinion and each Company Tax Opinion customary representations and covenants, including those contained in certificates of the Company, Parent, Merger Sub and others, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to each Tax Counsel. For the avoidance of doubt, it shall not be a condition to any party's obligation to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement that any Tax Opinion or Company Tax Opinion specified in this Section 5.2(b) has been obtained by either the Company or Parent."
Tax Opinion
Tax Counsel
Company Tax Opinion
Section 23. . Section 5.12 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.12
"Section 5.12 .
Indemnification and Insurance
(a) Parent, Merger Sub and Acquisition Sub agree that all rights to exculpation and indemnification, including rights to the advancement of expenses, for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time, whether asserted or claimed prior to, at or after the Effective Time (including any matters arising in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement), now existing in favor of the current or former directors, officers or employees, as the case may be (the ""), of the Company or its Subsidiaries as provided in their respective certificate of incorporation or by-laws or in any agreement shall survive the Merger and shall continue in full
Indemnified Parties
 
force and effect for a period of six (6) years from and after the Effective Time. For a period of six (6) years from and after the Effective Time, Parent, the Surviving Corporation and the Surviving Company shall (i) maintain in effect (A) the current provisions regarding indemnification of and the advancement of expenses to officers and directors contained in the Company Organizational Documents (or comparable organizational documents) of each of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (B) any indemnification agreements of the Company and its Subsidiaries with any of their respective directors, officers and employees existing as on the date hereof, and (ii) jointly and severally indemnify the Indemnified Parties to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. For purposes of the foregoing: (i) in the event any claim is asserted within the six-year period during which Parent, the Surviving Corporation and the Surviving Company are required to maintain the indemnification arrangements of the Company and its Subsidiaries, all such rights in respect of any such claim shall continue until disposition thereof; and (ii) any determination required to be made with respect to whether an Indemnified Party's conduct complies with the standards set forth under the DGCL, the Company Organizational Documents (or the organizational documents of the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company) or any such agreement, as the case may be, for purposes of the allowance of indemnification or advancement of expenses, shall be made by independent legal counsel selected by such Indemnified Party and reasonably acceptable to Parent. For a period of six (6) years from and after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company shall either cause to be maintained in effect the current policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by the Company or its Subsidiaries or provide substitute policies or purchase a "tail policy," in either case, of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions which are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the insured with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred on or before the Effective Time, except that in no event shall the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company be required to pay with respect to such insurance policies in respect of any one policy year more than 250% of the annual premium paid by the Company for such insurance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 (the ""), and if the Surviving Corporation or Surviving Company is unable to obtain the insurance required by this Section 5.12 it shall obtain as much comparable insurance as possible for an annual premium equal to the Maximum Amount.
Maximum Amount
(b) The provisions of this Section 5.12 are intended to be for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, each of the Indemnified Parties and their heirs and legal representatives.
(c) The rights of the Indemnified Parties and their heirs and legal representatives under this Section 5.12 shall be in addition to any rights such Indemnified Parties may have under the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or under any other applicable Laws.
(d) In the event that either Parent, the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company or any of their respective successors or assigns (A) consolidates with or merges into any other persons, or (B) transfers 50% or more of its properties or assets to any person, then and in each case, proper provision shall be made so the applicable successors and assigns or transferees assume the obligations set forth in this Section 5.12."
Section 24. . References in Section 5.16 to "Parent and Merger Sub" are hereby replaced with "Parent, Acquisition Sub and Merger Sub." In addition, the second sentence of Section 5.16 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to insert the words "Acquisition Sub or" between the words "permit" and "Merger Sub."
Amendments to Section 5.16
Section 25. . Section 6.1(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 6.1(g)
"(g) [Intentionally Omitted]."
 
Section 26. . Section 8.6 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 8.6
"Section 8.6. . EACH OF PARENT, THE COMPANY, ACQUISITION SUB, AND MERGER SUB HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE ACTIONS OF PARENT, THE COMPANY, ACQUISITION SUB, OR MERGER SUB IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT HEREOF."
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 27. . The phrase "To Parent or Merger Sub," which precedes the address of Parent in Section 8.7 is hereby amended to read as follows:
Amendment to Section 8.7
"To Parent, Acquisition Sub, or Merger Sub."
Section 28. .
No Other Amendments to the Merger Agreement
28.1 On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Merger Agreement to "this Agreement," "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" or words of similar import shall mean and be a reference to the Merger Agreement as amended hereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, references to the date of the Merger Agreement, as amended hereby, shall in all instances continue to refer to June 11, 2008, references to "the date hereof" and "the date of this Agreement" shall continue to refer to June 11, 2008, and references to the date of the Amendment and "as of the date of the Amendment" shall refer to October 15, 2008.
28.2 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect. This Amendment is limited precisely as written and shall not be deemed to be an amendment to any other term or condition of the Merger Agreement or any of the documents referred to therein.
Section 29. . This Amendment shall form a part of the Merger Agreement for all purposes, and each party hereto and thereto shall be bound hereby. From and after the execution of this Amendment by the parties hereto, any reference to the Merger Agreement shall be deemed a reference to the Merger Agreement as amended hereby. This Amendment shall be deemed to be in full force and effect from and after the execution of this Amendment by the parties hereto.
Effect of Amendment
Section 30. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
Section 31. . This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (including by facsimile), all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart.
Counterparts
Section 32. . The descriptive headings of the several Sections of this Amendment were formulated, used and inserted in this Amendment for convenience only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed or caused this Amendment to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized all as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Invitrogen Corporation (NASDAQ:IVGN) and Applied Biosystems Inc. (NYSE:ABI) today announced that they have amended their pending merger agreement to eliminate a condition to closing requiring that the parties receive certain opinions of their respective counsel as to the tax treatment of the transaction.
Carlsbad, Calif. & Foster City, Calif.  October 15, 2008 
Under the prior terms of the merger agreement, completion of the merger was conditioned on the receipt of an opinion from each party's counsel to the effect that the merger will be treated as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Given the unprecedented market conditions of the past few weeks, and the current trading price of Invitrogen's common stock, the parties determined that they currently might not be able to obtain the necessary opinions because of the relative value of the cash consideration to be received by Applied Biosystems stockholders as compared to the value of the stock consideration they will receive. Applicable tax regulations generally limit the percentage of the consideration that can be paid in cash if the transaction is to qualify as a tax-free reorganization.
In order to allow shareholders of Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems more time to consider the merger agreement amendment, the parties have agreed to delay their previously scheduled special stockholder meetings in connection with the merger. The special stockholder meetings for both Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems will now be held on October 28, 2008. Applied Biosystems will convene its scheduled October 16, 2008 special meeting for the sole purpose of adjourning the meeting, and Invitrogen's scheduled October 16, 2008 special meeting will be postponed.
Although voting on the merger is still in process, stockholders have thus far overwhelmingly voted in favor of the merger. Any proxies or votes already submitted by stockholders in connection with the special meetings will remain valid, therefore, there is no need to for any stockholders to vote again. In addition, any elections to receive cash, stock or mixed consideration that have already been submitted by Applied Biosystems stockholders will remain valid and will be unaffected by the delay in holding the special meetings or the amendment of the merger agreement.
 
Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems will be mailing a supplement to the joint proxy statement/prospectus in connection with the merger that was previously sent to stockholders of record as of the close of business on the September 5, 2008 record date. This supplement will provide detailed information regarding the amendment to the merger agreement and the tax implications of the merger. Stockholders are encouraged to read the supplement in its entirety, as well as the joint proxy statement / prospectus. The supplement will be filed with the Securities Exchange Commission and an electronic version will be available on each company's website.
Stockholders who have not yet voted may do so until the special stockholder meetings, and all proxies will remain revocable until the applicable meeting has been concluded. Applied Biosystems stockholders who have not made their cash, stock or mixed consideration elections may do so until the election deadline two business days prior to the closing of the merger. All elections will remain revocable until the election deadline.
The parties do not expect the delay in holding the special meetings or the amendment of the merger agreement to delay the projected closing date of the merger, which is still expected to occur in November. In addition to the approval of Applied Biosystems and Invitrogen stockholders, the merger is conditioned on, among other matters, receipt of antitrust clearance under the European Council Merger Regulation.
The special meeting of Invitrogen shareholders to consider the proposed acquisition of Applied Biosystems will now be held on October 28, 2008, at 9:30 a.m. Pacific Standard Time at Invitrogen's headquarters, 5781Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, CA 92008. Applied Biosystems' special meeting of shareholders will now be held on October 28, 2008, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time at the headquarters of Applied Biosystems, 301 Merritt 7, Norwalk, CT 06851.
Under the U.S. tax code, if the merger qualifies as a tax-free reorganization for tax purposes, gain realized by a U.S. holder of Applied Biosystems stock will only be taxable to the extent of the cash portion of the merger consideration. Loss, if any, will not be recognized at the time of the merger. If the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization, then U.S. holders of Applied Biosystems stock will recognize gain (or loss) to the extent that the value of the cash and stock consideration they receive exceeds (or is less than) the tax basis of the Applied Biosystems shares they own. There should be no consequences for U.S. holders of Invitrogen common stock if the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization. Stockholders are encouraged to obtain the advice of their personal tax advisors to make their own determination on the tax consequences to them of the merger.
Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems have received opinions from their respective counsel that, regardless of whether the merger qualifies as a tax-free reorganization, the merger will not be taxable to either company.
About Invitrogen
Invitrogen Corporation (NASDAQ: IVGN) provides products and services that support academic and government research institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies worldwide in their efforts to improve the human condition. The company provides essential life science technologies for disease research, drug discovery, and commercial bioproduction. Invitrogen's
 
own research and development efforts are focused on breakthrough innovation in all major areas of biological discovery including functional genomics, proteomics, stem cells, cell therapy and cell biology  placing Invitrogen's products in nearly every major laboratory in the world. Founded in 1987, Invitrogen is headquartered in Carlsbad, CA, and conducts business in more than 70 countries around the world. The company employs approximately 4,700 scientists and other professionals and had revenues of approximately $1.3 billion in 2007. For more information, visit www.Invitrogen.com.
About Applied Biosystems Inc.
Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation) is a global leader in the development and marketing of instrument-based systems, consumables, software, and services for academic research, the life science industry and commercial markets. Driven by its employees' belief in the power of science to improve the human condition, the company commercializes innovative technology solutions for DNA, RNA, protein and small molecule analysis. Customers across the disciplines of academic and clinical research, pharmaceutical research and manufacturing, forensic DNA analysis, and agricultural biotechnology use the company's tools and services to accelerate scientific discovery, improve processes related to drug discovery and development, detect potentially pathogenic microorganisms, and identify individuals based on DNA sources. Applied Biosystems has a comprehensive service and field applications support team for a global installed base of high-performance genetic and protein analysis solutions. Applied Biosystems is headquartered in Norwalk, CT. Information about Applied Biosystems, including reports and other information filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, is available at http://www.appliedbiosystems.com. All information in this news release is as of the date of the release, and Applied Biosystems does not undertake any duty to update this information unless required by law.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
In connection with the proposed transaction, Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems have filed a joint proxy statement/prospectus as part of a registration statement on Form S-4 regarding the proposed transaction with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus has been mailed to shareholders of both companies. A supplement to the definitive joint proxy statement / prospectus will be filed with the SEC and mailed to stockholders of both companies. Investors and security holders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus in its entirety, including the supplement thereto, because it contains important information about Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems and the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, including the supplement thereto, and other documents at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, including the supplement thereto, and other relevant documents may also be obtained free of charge from Invitrogen by directing such requests to: Invitrogen Corporation, Attention: Investor Relations, 5791 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, CA 92008, and from Applied Biosystems Inc. at: Applied Biosystems Inc., Attention: Investor Relations 850 Lincoln Center Drive, Foster City, CA 94404.
 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of their management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information concerning all of the participants in the solicitation is included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus relating to the proposed merger. This document is available free of charge at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at http://www.sec.gov and from: Invitrogen Investor Relations, telephone: 760-603-7200 or on Invitrogen's website at http://www.invitrogen.com; or from Applied Biosystems Investor Relations, telephone: (650) 554-2449 or on the Applied Biosystems' web site at http://www.appliedbiosystems.com.
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and it is Invitrogen's and Applied Biosystems' intent that such statements be protected by the safe harbor created thereby. Forward looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding the timing of and satisfaction of conditions to the merger, whether any of the anticipated benefits of the merger will be realized, future revenues, future net income, future cash flows, financial forecasts, future competitive positioning and business synergies, future acquisition cost savings, future expectations that the merger will be accretive to GAAP and cash earnings per share, future market demand, future benefits to stockholders, future debt payments and future economic and industry conditions. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to potential difficulties that may be encountered in integrating the merged businesses; potential uncertainties regarding market acceptance of the combined company; uncertainties as to the timing of the merger; uncertainties regarding approval of the transaction by the stockholders of the companies and the satisfaction of other closing conditions to the transaction; Invitrogen's and Applied Biosystems' ability to protect their respective intellectual property rights; competitive responses to the merger; an economic downturn, including the deterioration in economic and market conditions currently being experienced; risks that revenues following the merger may be lower than expected; Invitrogen's and Applied Biosystems' ability to make accurate estimates and control costs; Invitrogen's and Applied Biosystems' and their respective partners' ability to bid on, win, perform and renew contracts and projects; the need to develop new products and adapt to significant technological change; exposure to environmental liabilities and litigation; liabilities for pending and future litigation; the impact of changes in laws and regulations; industry competition; Invitrogen's ability to obtain the financing required to complete the merger, and the terms of such financing; Invitrogen's and Applied Biosystems' ability to attract and retain key employees; employee, agent or partner misconduct; risks associated with changes in equity-based compensation requirements; Invitrogen's and Applied Biosystems' leveraged position and ability to service debt; risks associated with international operations; third-party software risks; terrorist and natural disaster risks; anti-takeover risks and other factors; and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Invitrogen's and Applied Biosystems' SEC filings.
 
Contact Information:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Dear Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems Stockholders:
On or about September 12, 2008, Invitrogen Corporation, or Invitrogen, and Applied Biosystems Inc., or ABI, mailed to you a joint proxy statement/prospectus dated September 10, 2008, relating to the special meeting of Invitrogen stockholders and the special meeting of Applied Biosystems stockholders to consider, among other things, proposals related to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of September 9, 2008, by and among Invitrogen, Atom Acquisition, LLC and ABI (formerly known as Applera Corporation).
We are providing you this supplement to the joint proxy statement/prospectus to describe an amendment to the merger agreement between Invitrogen and ABI that was entered into on October 15, 2008, and to provide you with updated information regarding the potential tax consequences of the merger.
Invitrogen and ABI amended the merger agreement to, among other things, eliminate a condition to closing requiring that the parties receive certain opinions of their respective counsel as to the tax treatment of the transaction. Under the prior terms of the merger agreement, completion of the merger was conditioned on the receipt of an opinion from counsel to each of Invitrogen and ABI to the effect that the merger will be treated as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and that each of Invitrogen and ABI will be treated as a party to that reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. If the merger qualifies as a tax-free reorganization, then holders of Applied Biosystems stock may receive more favorable tax treatment on the stock consideration issued to them in the merger. Given the current trading price of Invitrogen's common stock, however, the parties determined that they currently would not be able to obtain the necessary opinions because of the value of the cash consideration to be received by Applied Biosystems stockholders as compared to the value of the stock consideration they will receive. Applicable tax regulations generally limit the percentage of the consideration that can be paid in cash if the transaction is to qualify as a tax-free reorganization. We believe the recent prices for Invitrogen common stock to be the result of overall unprecedented conditions in the stock market and the decline in stock prices generally as opposed to any factor specifically affecting Invitrogen.
The amendment to the merger agreement will allow Invitrogen and ABI to proceed with the merger even if the tax opinions cannot be obtained. That means that holders of Applied Biosystems stock may not be entitled to the potentially more favorable tax treatment of the stock consideration issued to them in the merger that would be available if the merger qualified as a tax- free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. However, in general, if you are a U.S. holder of Applied Biosystems stock who realizes gain on the merger, if the amount of cash you receive in the merger is equal to or greater than the gain you realize in the mergerthat is, the amount by which the sum of the amount of cash you receive and the fair market value, as of the effective time of the merger, of the Invitrogen common stock you receive (including cash received in lieu of any fractional shares of Invitrogen common stock) exceeds your adjusted tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged in the mergerthe amount of gain on the exchange that will be taxable to you should generally be the same regardless of whether the merger qualifies as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. See "Update to Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger" in this supplement.
The merger agreement amendment also modified the structure of the merger in order to ensure that, if the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization, the merger will not be taxable to ABI or Invitrogen, except
The merger agreement amendment also modified the structure of the merger in order to ensure that, if the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization, the merger will not be taxable to ABI or Invitrogen, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group. This amendment is necessary so that the committed financing for the merger, together with available cash on hand, will be sufficient to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration and all related costs and expenses since the transaction was not expected to be taxable to ABI or Invitrogen. Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
Invitrogen and ABI remain committed to completing the transaction, which is expected to close in November 2008. Despite the upheaval in the financial and credit markets, the boards of directors of Invitrogen and ABI continue to believe the merger is in the best interests of each company's stockholders. The amendments to the merger agreement will help to reduce uncertainty that the merger will be completed and allow the transaction to go forward even in the midst of the unprecedented volatility currently being experienced in the securities markets and the current trading price of Invitrogen's common stock.
The Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders will be held on October 16, 2008 at ABI's headquarters, located at 301 Merritt 7, Main Avenue (old U.S. Route 7), Norwalk, Connecticut 06851, for the sole purpose of adjourning the meeting to 9:00 a.m., Eastern time, on October 28, 2008. ABI intends to adjourn its special meeting of stockholders in order to provide stockholders with additional time to consider the changes to the merger effectuated by Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement and to review the enclosed supplement to the joint proxy statement/prospectus.
The adjourned Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders will be held for the following purposes:
 
 
Invitrogen has postponed its special meeting of stockholders until October 28, 2008 in order to provide stockholders with additional time to consider the changes to the merger effectuated by Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement and to review the enclosed supplement to the joint proxy statement/prospectus.
The Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders will be held for the following purposes:
 
 
 
 
This supplement does not change the proposals previously submitted for approval by Invitrogen and ABI in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, except to amend the description of the merger agreement and update certain disclosures related to the amendment. The Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders and the adjourned Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders will be held at the dates, times and locations set forth below. Whether or not you plan to attend your company's meeting, please take the time to submit your proxy or vote by telephone or the internet. If your shares of Invitrogen common stock or Applied Biosystems stock are held in an account with a bank, broker or other nominee, you must instruct your bank, broker or other nominee how to vote those shares if you have not already voted or if you wish to change your vote. A revised proxy card for holders of Applied Biosystems stock is enclosed.
If you previously submitted your proxy, or voted by telephone or the internet, your proxy or vote will continue to be valid, and you do not need to submit a new proxy or otherwise vote again unless you want to change your vote.
 
As discussed in greater detail in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, holders of Applied Biosystems stock have the right to elect to receive their merger consideration in the form of cash, Invitrogen common stock or a combination of cash and stock, subject to proration. If you have not yet submitted an election form, you will have until two business days prior to the closing of the merger to do so. We currently expect that the merger will be completed in November 2008 and we will issue a press release announcing the election deadline at least five business days prior to the closing date of the merger.
If you previously submitted an election form, you do not need to submit a new election form unless you want to change your election.
Attached to this letter is a supplement to the joint proxy statement/prospectus, or the supplement, containing additional and updated information about the amended merger agreement. Please read this document carefully in its entirety. We also encourage you, if you have not done so already, to review carefully the joint proxy statement/prospectus that was previously sent to you. All references to the agreement and plan of merger, the merger agreement or the merger in this supplement and in the joint proxy statement/prospectus are to the agreement and plan of merger as amended.
The record date for the special meetings has not changed. Only stockholders of record of Invitrogen common stock at the close of business on September 5, 2008, are entitled to vote at the special meeting of Invitrogen stockholders. Only holders of record of Applied Biosystems stock at the close of business on September 5, 2008, are entitled to vote at the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders or any adjournment of the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders.
For a discussion of certain risk factors you should consider before voting on the proposed transaction, see "Risk Factors" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and this supplement.
 
Neither the Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state securities commission has approved or disapproved the Invitrogen common stock to be issued pursuant to the merger or passed upon the adequacy or accuracy of this joint proxy statement/prospectus. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.
This supplement is dated October 15, 2008, and is first being mailed to stockholders on or about October 16, 2008.
 
This supplement is being mailed to the stockholders of Invitrogen and the holders of Applied Biosystems stock because Invitrogen and ABI have amended the merger agreement. This supplement provides information about the amendment to the merger agreement and updates certain disclosures in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, dated September 10, 2008. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to the merger agreement in this supplement and the joint proxy statement/prospectus refer to the Merger Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated September 10, 2008, and Amendment No. 2, dated as of October 15, 2008, as amended. A copy of Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement is included as Annex A to this supplement.
Stockholders are urged to read this supplement carefully together with the joint proxy statement/prospectus. The information contained in this supplement replaces and supersedes any inconsistent information set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus.
If you are an Invitrogen stockholder, you may obtain additional copies of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, this supplement or the previously delivered proxy card by requesting them by writing to Invitrogen Corporation, 5791 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, California 92008, or by calling (760) 603-7200, or contacting Invitrogen's proxy solicitor at the following address and telephone number:
If you are an Applied Biosystems stockholder, you may obtain additional copies of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, this supplement, or the revised proxy card by requesting them by writing to Applied Biosystems Inc., 301 Merritt 7, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851, Attention: Corporate Secretary, or by calling (203) 840-2000, or contacting ABI's proxy solicitor at the following address and telephone number:
You will not be charged for any documents that you request. The joint proxy statement/prospectus and this supplement may also be found on the internet at www.sec.gov.
Information contained on the websites of Invitrogen and ABI is expressly not incorporated by reference into the joint proxy statement/prospectus and this supplement.
The merger cannot be completed unless (1) holders of Invitrogen common stock vote to (a) approve the issuance of Invitrogen common stock in the merger and (b) amend Invitrogen's restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock and (2) holders of Applied Biosystems stock vote to approve and adopt the merger agreement and approve the merger.
Your vote is very important.
 
The holders of record of shares of Invitrogen common stock as of the close of business on September 5, 2008, which is the record date for the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders (including any adjournment thereof), are entitled to receive notice of and to vote at the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders. On the record date, there were 92,117,285 shares of Invitrogen common stock outstanding. Holders of record of Invitrogen common stock may vote their shares by attending the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders and voting their shares of Invitrogen common stock in person, by completing the previously delivered proxy card, signing and dating it and mailing it in the previously delivered postage-prepaid envelope, or by telephone or the internet.
The holders of record of shares of Applied Biosystems common stock as of the close of business on September 5, 2008, which is the record date for the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders (including any adjournment thereof), are entitled to receive notice of and to vote at the special meeting. On the record date, there were 169,541,084 shares of Applied Biosystems common stock outstanding. Holders of record of Applied Biosystems stock may vote their shares by attending the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders and voting their shares of Applied Biosystems stock in person or by completing the previously delivered proxy card or the revised proxy card included with this supplement, signing and dating it and mailing it in the previously delivered postage-prepaid envelope, or by telephone or the internet.
NO ACTION IS REQUIRED BY ANY INVITROGEN STOCKHOLDER OR HOLDER OF APPLIED BIOSYSTEMS STOCK WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY DELIVERED A PROXY OR VOTED BY TELEPHONE OR THE INTERNET AND WHO DOES NOT WISH TO REVOKE OR CHANGE THAT PROXY OR VOTE.
 
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to include the following disclosure in "Questions and Answers about the Merger and Special Meetings of Stockholders of Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems":
The following section provides brief answers to some of the more likely questions raised in connection with the amendment to the merger agreement and the merger. This section is not intended to contain all of the information that is important to you. You are urged to read the entire supplement and joint proxy statement/prospectus carefully, including the information incorporated by reference into the joint proxy statement/prospectus and the annexes to the joint proxy statement/prospectus and this supplement.
 
 
 
 
The merger agreement amendment also modified the structure of the merger in order to ensure that, if the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization, the merger will not be taxable to ABI or Invitrogen, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group. Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
 
 
 
receive. Applicable tax regulations generally limit the percentage of the consideration that can be paid in cash if the transaction is to qualify as a tax-free reorganization. We believe the recent prices for Invitrogen common stock to be the result of overall unprecedented conditions in the stock market and the decline in stock prices generally as opposed to any factor specifically affecting Invitrogen. By amending the merger agreement to eliminate the condition that each party receives an opinion of its counsel to the effect that the merger will constitute a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and each of Invitrogen and ABI will be treated as a party to that reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, Invitrogen and ABI will be able to proceed with the merger even if these tax opinions cannot be obtained.
The amendment to the merger agreement to modify the structure of the merger will ensure that, if the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization, the merger will not be taxable to ABI or Invitrogen, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group. This amendment is necessary so that the committed financing for the merger, together with available cash on hand, will be sufficient to pay the merger consideration and all related costs and expenses since the transaction was not expected to be taxable to ABI or Invitrogen.
 
 
However, in general, if you are a U.S. holder of Applied Biosystems stock who realizes gain on the merger, if the amount of cash you receive in the merger is equal to or greater than the gain you realize in the mergerthat is, the amount by which the sum of the amount of cash you receive and the fair market value, as of the effective time of the merger, of the Invitrogen common stock you receive (including cash received in lieu of any fractional shares of Invitrogen common stock) exceeds your adjusted tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged in the mergerthe amount of gain on the exchange that will be taxable to you should generally be the same regardless of whether or not the merger qualifies as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Please review carefully the information in this supplement under the caption "Update to Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger" for a description of the material U.S. federal income tax consequences of the merger. The tax consequences to you will depend on your own situation. Please consult your tax advisors for a full understanding of the tax consequences of the merger to you.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The board of directors of ABI recommends that Applied Biosystems stockholders vote at the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders to adopt the merger agreement and approve any adjournments of the special meeting, if necessary, to solicit additional proxies.
 
 
If you are a registered holder and you wish to change your vote, please complete, sign and date a new proxy card and return it in accordance with the instructions on the proxy card and in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and this supplement or submit a new vote by telephone or the internet following the voting instructions in the joint proxy statement/prospectus. If your shares are held in "street name" by your broker and you wish to change your vote, please refer to your voting card or other information forwarded to you by your broker, bank or other holder of record to determine whether you may vote by telephone or on the internet and follow the instructions on the card or other information provided by the record holder.
A revised proxy card for use by Applied Biosystems stockholders is included with this supplement. Invitrogen stockholders can continue to use the proxy card previously provided to them with the joint proxy statement / prospectus. If you require a new proxy card, you may obtain one by following the instructions on the first page of this supplement. Invitrogen stockholders can request one from Invitrogen or its proxy solicitor, The Altman Group, and ABI stockholders can request one from ABI or its proxy solicitor, Morrow & Co., LLC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If your shares are held in a "street name" account, you must contact your broker, bank or other nominee to change your vote.
 
 
The Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders will be held on October 16, 2006 at 9:30 a.m., Eastern time, at Applied Biosystems' headquarters, located at 301 Merritt 7, Main Avenue (old U.S. Route 7), Norwalk, Connecticut 06851, solely for the purpose of adjourning the meeting and will reconvene on October 28, at 9:00 a.m., Eastern time, at the same location.
 
 
Only holders of record of Invitrogen common stock at the close of business on September 5, 2008, which is referred to as the Invitrogen record date, are entitled to notice of and to vote at the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders. As of the Invitrogen record date, there were 92,117,285 shares of Invitrogen common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders, held by approximately 1,120 holders of record. Each holder of Invitrogen common stock is entitled to one vote for each share of Invitrogen common stock owned as of the Invitrogen record date.
 
Only holders of record of Applied Biosystems stock at the close of business on September 5, 2008, which is referred to as the Applied Biosystems record date, are entitled to notice of and to vote at the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders, including any adjournment of the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders. As of the Applied Biosystems record date, there were 169,541,084 shares of Applied Biosystems stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders, held by approximately 4,792 holders of record. Each holder of Applied Biosystems stock is entitled to one vote for each share of Applied Biosystems stock owned as of the Applied Biosystems record date.
 
 
If you are an Invitrogen stockholder:
 
If you are a holder of Applied Biosystems stock:
 
 
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to include the following disclosure in "Summary":
This update to the summary highlights important information about the proposed merger discussed in more detail elsewhere in this supplement and in the joint proxy statement/prospectus. This updated summary does not contain all of the information you should consider before voting on the issuance of shares of Invitrogen common stock, the amendment to the Invitrogen certificate of incorporation or the adoption of the amended merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. To understand the merger more fully, you are urged to read carefully this entire supplement and Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement, a copy of which is attached as Annex A to this supplement, and the joint proxy statement/prospectus and all of its annexes before voting. The amended merger agreement is the legal document that governs the merger. In addition, Invitrogen and ABI encourage you to read the information incorporated by reference into the joint proxy statement/prospectus, which includes important information about Invitrogen and ABI that has been filed with the SEC.
Atom Acquisition Corporation
Atom Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen. Atom Acquisition Corporation was formed exclusively for the purpose of effecting the merger.
On June 11, 2008, Invitrogen, Atom Acquisition and ABI entered into the merger agreement described in the joint proxy statement/prospectus. The merger agreement was amended on September 9, 2008, and on October 15, 2008, and all references to the merger agreement in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and this supplement include the amendments thereto. Pursuant to the merger agreement, (1) Atom Acquisition Corporation, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Atom Acquisition, LLC and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen, will merge into ABI, with ABI continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Atom Acquisition, LLC and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen, and (2) immediately thereafter, ABI will merge into Atom Acquisition, LLC, with Atom Acquisition, LLC continuing as the surviving company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen. Together, this is referred to as the merger. As a result of the merger, ABI will cease to exist, and its businesses will be owned by Invitrogen and Invitrogen will continue as a public company. Immediately following the merger, a newly formed corporation wholly-owned by Invitrogen will then merge with and into Invitrogen, with Invitrogen continuing as the surviving corporation for the sole purpose of changing the name of Invitrogen to "Applied Biosystems, Inc." Invitrogen and ABI have attached Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement as Annex A to this supplement and encourage you to carefully read Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement along with the merger agreement and Amendment No. 1 to the merger agreement, which were attached as Annexes A and B, respectively, to the joint proxy statement/prospectus, in their entirety.
Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
 
 
If the merger does not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, each U.S. holder of Applied Biosystems stock will recognize gain or loss with respect to each share of Applied Biosystems stock that it exchanges in the merger equal to the difference, if any, between (1) the sum of any cash received (including cash received in lieu of a fractional share of Invitrogen common stock) and the fair market value, as of the effective time of the merger, of the shares of Invitrogen common stock received by such holder in the exchange and (2) such holder's tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged therefor. In such event, the U.S. holder's aggregate tax basis in the shares of Invitrogen common stock so received will equal their fair market value as of the effective time of the merger, and such holder's holding period for such shares will begin the day after the merger.
There are no tax consequences for U.S. holders of Invitrogen common stock if the merger does not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Please review carefully the information under the caption "Update to Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger" for a description of the material U.S. federal income tax consequences of the merger. The tax consequences to you will depend on your own situation. Please consult your tax advisors for a full understanding of the tax consequences of the merger to you.
The board of directors of Invitrogen, or the Invitrogen Board, has unanimously approved and adopted the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated by it and unanimously recommends that Invitrogen stockholders vote at the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders to approve the issuance of Invitrogen common stock pursuant to the merger agreement, as required by the listing requirements of NASDAQ, and to amend Invitrogen's restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock from 200,000,000 to 400,000,000. Approval of the proposal to approve the issuance of shares of Invitrogen common stock pursuant to the merger agreement is a condition to the completion of the merger, and approval of the proposal to amend Invitrogen's restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares is a condition to completion of the merger and is necessary for Invitrogen to issue the shares of Invitrogen common stock in the merger. In addition, the Invitrogen board of directors unanimously recommends that Invitrogen stockholders vote to approve a proposal to grant authority to the proxyholders to vote to adjourn the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders, if necessary, to solicit additional proxies if there are not sufficient votes at the time of the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders in favor of any or all of the foregoing proposals. Approval of the proposal to adjourn the Invitrogen special meeting of stockholders, if necessary, is not a condition to the completion of the merger. As described under the heading "The Merger- Interests of Invitrogen's Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, some of Invitrogen's directors and executive officers may have interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, those of Invitrogen stockholders generally.
The board of directors of ABI has approved the merger agreement, declared the merger agreement advisable, determined that the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated by it are in the best interests of ABI and Applied Biosystems stockholders, and recommends that Applied Biosystems stockholders vote at the Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders to adopt the merger agreement and approve any adjournments of the special meeting, if necessary, to solicit additional proxies. See "The MergerBackground of the Merger" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus. As described under the heading "The MergerInterests of ABI's Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, some of ABI's directors and executive officers may have interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, those of holders of Applied Biosystems stock generally.
 
 
A number of conditions to each party's obligation to complete the merger must be satisfied before the merger will be completed. These include among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The financing commitments secured by Invitrogen stipulate that no waiver of the conditions to the performance of obligations under the merger agreement that is materially adverse to the lenders under those financing commitments can be made without the consent of those lenders. Notwithstanding those financing commitments, to the extent permitted by law, either Invitrogen or ABI may waive the conditions to the performance of its obligations under the merger agreement and complete the merger even though one or more of these conditions has not been met. Neither Invitrogen nor ABI can give any assurance that all of the conditions to the merger will be either satisfied or waived or that the merger will occur.
 
 
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to include the following disclosure in "Risk Factors":
If the merger does not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, the receipt of Invitrogen common stock as consideration for the merger may be taxable to holders of Applied Biosystems stock.
If the merger does not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, each U.S. holder of Applied Biosystems stock will recognize gain or loss with respect to each share of Applied Biosystems stock that it exchanges in the merger equal to the difference, if any, between (1) the sum of any cash received (including cash received in lieu of a fractional share of Invitrogen common stock) and the fair market value, as of the effective time of the merger, of the shares of Invitrogen common stock received by such holder in the exchange and (2) such holder's tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged for shares of Invitrogen common stock. In such event, the U.S. holder's aggregate tax basis in the shares of Invitrogen common stock so received will equal their fair market value as of the effective time of the merger, and such holder's holding period for such shares will begin the day after the merger. The merger may not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code depending on the trading price of Invitrogen common stock at the time of the merger. On June 10, 2008, the last trading day before the execution date of the merger agreement, Invitrogen common stock closed at $43.69 per share, as reported on NASDAQ. From June 12, 2008, the day of the announcement of the proposed merger, through September 5, 2008, the last date for which share price information was included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus, the trading price of Invitrogen common stock ranged from a closing high of $44.35 per share to a closing low of $36.73 per share. From September 8, 2008 through October 14, 2008, the trading price of Invitrogen Common stock ranged from a closing high of $41.53 per share to a closing low of $27.93 per share. We believe the recent prices for Invitrogen common stock to be the result of overall conditions in the stock market and the decline in stock prices generally as opposed to any factor specifically affecting Invitrogen.
 
Statements contained in this supplement that are not historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements, including statements relating to timing of and satisfaction of conditions to the merger, whether any of the anticipated benefits of the merger will be realized, future revenues, future net income, future cash flows, financial forecasts, future competitive positioning and business synergies, future acquisition cost savings, future expectations that the merger will be accretive to GAAP and cash earnings per share, future market demand, future benefits to stockholders, future debt payments and future economic and industry conditions. Words such as "expect," "estimate," "project," "budget," "forecast," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "may," "will," "could," "should," "believe," "predict," "potential," "continue" and similar expressions are also intended to identify forward-looking statements. Invitrogen and ABI believe that their expectations are reasonable and are based on reasonable assumptions. However, such forward-looking statements by their nature involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results predicted or implied by the forward-looking statement. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include those set forth in Invitrogen's and ABI's filings with the SEC. The potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this supplement, or, in the case of documents incorporated by reference, as of the date of those documents. Invitrogen and ABI disclaim any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein.
 
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to include the following disclosure in "The Merger":
General Description of the Merger
Prior to entering into the merger agreement with ABI, Invitrogen formed Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen. Atom Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Atom Acquisition, LLC and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen was formed in connection with Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Atom Acquisition Corporation will be merged with and into ABI, with ABI being the surviving corporation. Immediately thereafter, ABI will be merged with and into Atom Acquisition, LLC, and Atom Acquisition, LLC will be the surviving company and Invitrogen's direct wholly-owned subsidiary.
Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement eliminates the condition to the closing of the merger that DLA Piper LLP (US), counsel to Invitrogen, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, counsel to ABI, deliver opinions, effective as of the date of closing, to Invitrogen and ABI, respectively, substantially to the effect that (1) the merger will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) Invitrogen and ABI will each be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
There can be no assurance that the merger will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and therefore no assurance that the merger will not be taxable to holders of Applied Biosystems stock to the extent that they receive Invitrogen common stock pursuant to the merger.
Background of the Merger
On October 15, 2008, Invitrogen, Atom Acquisition, LLC, Atom Acquisition Corporation and ABI entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of September 9, 2008, to, among other things, (1) add Atom Acquisition Corporation, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen, as a party to the merger agreement, (2) provide that at the time of the merger, Atom Acquisition Corporation will be merged with and into ABI, with ABI being the surviving corporation, and immediately thereafter, ABI will merge with and into Atom Acquisition, LLC, with Atom Acquisition, LLC being the surviving company, and (3) eliminate the condition to the parties' obligations to complete the merger that each party receive an opinion of its respective counsel to the effect that the merger will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, and Invitrogen and ABI will each be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. Given the current trading price of Invitrogen's common stock, the parties determined that they currently would not be able to obtain the necessary opinions because of the value of the cash consideration to be received by Applied Biosystems stockholders as compared to the value of the stock consideration they will receive. We believe the recent prices for Invitrogen common stock to be the result of overall unprecedented conditions in the stock market and the decline in stock prices generally as opposed to any factor specifically affecting Invitrogen. Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
 
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to include the following disclosure in "The Merger Agreement":
Structure of the Merger
The Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of September 9, 2008, and Amendment No. 2 thereto, dated as of October 15, 2008, by and among Invitrogen, Atom Acquisition, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen, Atom Acquisition Corporation, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen, and ABI, provides for the merger of Atom Acquisition Corporation into ABI, with ABI continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Atom Acquisition, LLC and, immediately thereafter, the merger of ABI into Atom Acquisition, LLC, with Atom Acquisition, LLC continuing as the surviving company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen. Together, this is referred to as the merger. As a result of the merger, ABI will cease to exist, and its businesses will be owned by Invitrogen and Invitrogen will continue as a public company. At the time of the merger, Invitrogen will (1) form a Delaware corporation, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of which will be owned by Invitrogen and (2) immediately prior to the effective time of the merger, merge such subsidiary with and into Invitrogen pursuant to Section 253 of the DGCL, with Invitrogen continuing as the surviving corporation, for the sole purpose of changing the name of Invitrogen to "Applied Biosystems, Inc."
Conditions to Completion of the Merger
Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement eliminates the condition to the parties' obligation to complete the merger that Invitrogen receive an opinion from DLA Piper LLP (US), counsel to Invitrogen, and ABI receive an opinion from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, counsel to ABI, effective as of the date of closing, substantially to the effect that (1) the merger will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, and (2) Invitrogen and ABI will each be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
 
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to replace in its entirety the disclosure under "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger" with the following:
Prior to Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement, the obligations of Invitrogen and ABI to complete the merger were contingent upon, among other things, the receipt of tax opinions from counsel for each of Invitrogen and ABI substantially to the effect that the merger will be treated as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, and that each of Invitrogen and ABI will be treated as the party to a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. As discussed in the "Risk Factors" section of the joint proxy statement/prospectus of ABI and Invitrogen to which this supplement relates, the market price of Invitrogen stock as of the effective time could fall to a level such that counsel to both Invitrogen and ABI would not be able to deliver the tax opinions that were, prior to Amendment No. 2 to the merger agreement, a condition to the closing of the merger because such counsel could determine that the merger does not clearly satisfy the continuity of interest requirement for a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe this to be the result of overall conditions in the stock market and the decline in stock prices generally as opposed to any factor specifically affecting Invitrogen. As a result of recent market conditions, Invitrogen and ABI have amended the merger agreement to eliminate this condition to the completion of the merger in order to permit the merger to be completed under circumstances where these tax opinions have not been obtained. We have revised the summary of certain material U.S. federal income tax consequences of the merger to include a summary of the tax consequences to holders of Applied Biosystems stock if the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
General
The following summarizes certain material U.S. federal income tax consequences of the merger. The following summary is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. It is based upon the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations, rulings, and decisions thereunder in effect as of the date of this document, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect, and to differing interpretations. This summary, to the extent it addresses the tax consequences to U.S. holders (as defined below) of Applied Biosystems stock, addresses only those stockholders who hold their shares of Applied Biosystems stock as a capital asset, and does not address all of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that may be relevant to particular Applied Biosystems stockholders in light of their individual circumstances, or to Applied Biosystems stockholders who are subject to special rules, such as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, tax consequences under state, local and foreign laws and U.S. federal laws other than U.S. federal income tax laws are not addressed.
Applied Biosystems stockholders are urged to consult their tax advisors as to the specific tax consequences to them of the merger, including the applicability and effect of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income and other tax laws in their particular circumstances.
For purposes of this discussion, a U.S. holder means a beneficial owner of Applied Biosystems stock who is:
 
 
 
 
If a business entity classified as a partnership for U.S. federal tax purposes (a "partnership") holds Applied Biosystems stock, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Partners of partnerships holding Applied Biosystems stock should consult their own tax advisers.
Certain Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger
It is no longer a condition to the closing of the merger that DLA Piper LLP (US) and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP deliver opinions, effective as of the date of closing, to Invitrogen and ABI, respectively, substantially to the effect that (1) the merger will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and (2) that each of Invitrogen and ABI will be treated as the party to a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Each of ABI and Invitrogen has received an opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that, based on the law in effect and the facts existing as of the date of the opinions, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the previously completed separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
Any tax opinion is based on representations made by Invitrogen and ABI, including factual representations and certifications contained in officers' certificates to be delivered at closing by Invitrogen and ABI, and assumes that these representations are true, correct and complete, without regard to any knowledge limitation. Furthermore, any tax opinion is subject to assumptions, limitations and qualifications. Any such opinions also are based on the assumptions that the merger will be consummated in the manner contemplated by, and in accordance with the provisions of, the merger agreement, as amended, and that the merger will be effective under
 
the laws of the State of Delaware. Any such opinions further assume that the parties have complied with and, if applicable, will continue to comply with, the covenants contained in the merger agreement. If any of these representations or assumptions are inconsistent with the actual facts, the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the merger could be adversely affected. An opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment and is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or any court. No ruling has been, or will be, sought from the Internal Revenue Service as to the tax consequences of the merger.
Tax Consequences of the Merger for U.S. Holders if the Merger Does Qualify as a Reorganization Within the Meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code
If the merger qualifies as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, the merger will have the following U.S. federal income tax consequences to Applied Biosystems stockholders:
. No gain or loss will be recognized by an Applied Biosystems stockholder as a result of the surrender of shares of Applied Biosystems stock in exchange for shares of Invitrogen common stock pursuant to the merger, if such holder receives no cash pursuant to the merger, except as discussed below with respect to cash received instead of a fractional share of Invitrogen common stock. The aggregate tax basis of the shares of Invitrogen common stock received in the merger (including any fractional shares of Invitrogen common stock deemed received) will be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the shares of Applied Biosystems stock surrendered in exchange for the Invitrogen common stock. The holding period of the shares of Invitrogen common stock received (including any fractional share of Invitrogen common stock deemed received) will include the holding period of shares of Applied Biosystems stock surrendered in exchange for the Invitrogen common stock.
Applied Biosystems Stockholders Receiving Only Invitrogen Common Stock
. An Applied Biosystems stockholder that does not receive any shares of Invitrogen common stock pursuant to the merger will generally recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount of cash received and the holder's adjusted tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged in the merger. Such gain or loss will generally be a capital gain or loss, and will generally be a long-term capital gain or loss to the extent that, at the effective time of the merger, the holder has a holding period in such Applied Biosystems stock of more than one year. The deductibility of capital losses is subject to limitations.
Applied Biosystems Stockholders Receiving Only Cash
. If an Applied Biosystems stockholder receives both Invitrogen common stock and cash (other than cash received instead of a fractional share of Invitrogen common stock) pursuant to the merger, that holder will generally recognize gain equal to the lesser of (1) the amount of cash received (excluding cash received instead of a fractional share of Invitrogen common stock) and (2) the amount by which the sum of the amount of cash received and the value (as of the effective time of the merger) of the Invitrogen common stock received exceeds the holder's adjusted tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged in the merger. This gain will generally be capital gain unless the holder's exchange of Applied Biosystems stock for cash and Invitrogen common stock "has the effect of the distribution of a dividend."
Applied Biosystems Stockholders Receiving Both Cash and Invitrogen Common Stock
In general, the determination as to whether the receipt of cash has the effect of a distribution of a dividend depends upon whether and to what extent the transactions related to the merger will be deemed to reduce a holder's percentage ownership of Invitrogen immediately following the merger. In making a determination as to whether or not the receipt of cash has the effect of a distribution of a dividend, certain constructive ownership rules must be taken into account. For purposes of this determination, a holder will be treated as if it first exchanged all of its Applied Biosystems stock solely for Invitrogen common stock, and then a portion of the Invitrogen stock so received was immediately redeemed by Invitrogen for the cash (excluding cash received instead of a fractional share of Invitrogen common stock) that the holder actually received in the merger. The Internal Revenue Service has indicated that a reduction in the interest of a minority stockholder that owns a small
 
number of shares in a publicly traded and widely held corporation and that exercises no control over corporate affairs would result in capital gain (as opposed to dividend) treatment.
Further, capital gains treatment should be available to any U.S. holder who receives both cash and Invitrogen common stock in the merger if the percentage of Invitrogen common stock actually and constructively owned by such U.S. holder immediately after the merger is less than 80% of the percentage of Invitrogen common stock which such U.S. holder would have owned (actually and constructively) were such U.S. holder to have received solely Invitrogen common stock in the merger. A holder is urged to consult its tax advisers about the possibility that all or a portion of any cash received in exchange for Applied Biosystems stock will be treated as a dividend. The capital gain recognized generally will be long-term capital gain to the extent that, at the effective time of the merger, the holder has a holding period in Applied Biosystems stock exchanged in the merger of more than one year.
The aggregate tax basis of the shares of Invitrogen common stock received in the merger (including any fractional share of Invitrogen common stock deemed received) to a holder receiving cash in the merger that was not treated as a dividend will be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the shares of Applied Biosystems stock surrendered in exchange therefor in the merger, increased by the amount of capital gain recognized (excluding gain recognized with respect to cash received instead of fractional shares) and reduced by the amount of cash received (excluding cash received instead of fractional shares). The holding period of the shares of Invitrogen common stock received (including any fractional share of Invitrogen common stock deemed received) will include the holding period of shares of Applied Biosystems stock surrendered in exchange for the Invitrogen common stock. If a holder's tax basis in shares of Applied Biosystems stock exceeds the sum of the amount of cash received and the value of the Invitrogen common stock received in exchange for the shares of Applied Biosystems stock, such a holder will not recognize loss.
. Applied Biosystems stockholders who receive cash instead of fractional shares of Invitrogen common stock will be treated as having received the fractional shares in the merger and then as having exchanged the fractional shares for cash. These holders will generally recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the tax basis allocable to the fractional shares and the amount of cash received. The gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss and long-term capital gain or loss if the Applied Biosystems stock exchanged has been held for more than one year at the effective time of the merger. The deductibility of capital losses is subject to limitations.
Applied Biosystems Stockholders Receiving Cash Instead of a Fractional Share
Tax Consequences of the Merger for U.S. Holders if the Merger Does Not Qualify as a Reorganization Within the Meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code
If the merger does not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, each U.S. holder of Applied Biosystems stock will recognize gain or loss with respect to each share of Applied Biosystems stock that it exchanges in the merger equal to the difference, if any, between (1) the sum of any cash received (including cash received in lieu of a fractional share of Invitrogen common stock) and the fair market value, as of the effective time of the merger, of the shares of Invitrogen common stock received by such holder in the exchange and (2) such holder's tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged therefor. In such event, the U.S. holder's aggregate tax basis in the shares of Invitrogen common stock so received will equal their fair market value as of the effective time of the merger, and such holder's holding period for such shares will begin the day after the merger.
In general, in the case of a U.S. holder of Applied Biosystems stock who realizes gain on the merger, if the amount of cash received by such a U.S. holder in the merger is equal to or greater than that U.S. holder's gain realized in the merger (., the amount by which the sum of the amount of cash received and the value (as of the effective time of the merger) of the Invitrogen common stock received exceeds the U.S. holder's adjusted tax basis in the shares of Applied Biosystems stock exchanged in the merger), the U.S. federal income tax consequences to such U.S. holder should generally be the same regardless of whether the merger qualifies as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
i.e
 
Tax Consequences of the Merger to ABI and Invitrogen
Except with respect to the effect, if any, of the merger on the separation of ABI's Celera business group, the merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to ABI or Invitrogen.
Applied Biosystems Stockholders Exercising Appraisal Rights
A U.S. holder who exercises appraisal rights under Delaware law and receives cash in exchange for its Applied Biosystems stock will generally recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the cash received by such holder (other than any cash received that is treated as actual or imputed interest, which will be taxable as ordinary income) and such holder's tax basis in the Applied Biosystems stock exchanged therefor.
Information Reporting and Backup Withholding
Cash payments received in the merger by a U.S. holder may, under certain circumstances, be subject to information reporting and backup withholding at a rate of 28% of the cash payable to the holder, unless the holder provides proof of an applicable exemption, furnishes its taxpayer identification number (in the case of individuals, their social security number) and otherwise complies with all applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. Any amounts withheld from payments to a U.S. holder under the backup withholding rules are not additional tax and will be allowed as a refund or credit against the U.S. holder's U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is timely furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
The foregoing discussion is not intended to be legal or tax advice to any particular Applied Biosystems stockholder. Tax matters regarding the merger are very complicated, and the tax consequences of the merger to any particular Applied Biosystems stockholder will depend on that stockholder's particular situation. Applied Biosystems stockholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the specific tax consequences of the merger, including tax return reporting requirements, the applicability of federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax laws and the effect of any proposed change in the tax laws to them.
 
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to include the following disclosure in "The Invitrogen Special Meeting of Stockholders":
Date, Time, Place and Purpose of the Invitrogen Special Meeting of Stockholders
The special meeting of Invitrogen stockholders will be held on October 28, 2008, at 9:30 a.m., Pacific time, at Invitrogen's headquarters, 5781 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, California 92008.
The joint proxy statement/prospectus is supplemented to include the following disclosure in "The Applied Biosystems Special Meeting of Stockholders":
Date, Time, Place and Purpose of the Applied Biosystems Special Meeting of Stockholders
The Applied Biosystems special meeting of stockholders will be held on October 16, 2008, at 9:30 a.m., Eastern time, at Applied Biosystems' headquarters, located at 301 Merritt 7, Main Avenue (old U.S. Route 7), Norwalk, Connecticut 06851, solely for the purpose of adjourning the meeting and will reconvene on October 28, 2008, at 9:00 a.m., Eastern time, at the same location.
 
ANNEX A
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 (this "") to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended on September 9, 2008 (the ""), by and among Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned Subsidiary of Parent (""), and Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the ""), is made and entered into as of the 15th day of October, 2008 by Parent, Acquisition Sub, the Company and Atom Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly-owned Subsidiary of Acquisition Sub that will become a party to the Merger Agreement by virtue of this Amendment (""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Merger Agreement, as modified by this Amendment.
Amendment
Merger Agreement
Parent
Acquisition Sub
Company
Merger Sub
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 7.4 of the Merger Agreement, the Merger Agreement may be amended or supplemented in writing by the Company and Parent; and
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend the Merger Agreement to, among other things, (i) modify the structure of the Merger so that, at the Effective Time, Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the Surviving Corporation in the Merger and, immediately thereafter, the Surviving Corporation will be merged with and into Acquisition Sub, with Acquisition Sub continuing as the Surviving Company in the Second Merger, (ii) eliminate the provision in Section 6.1(g) of the Merger Agreement which provided that, as a condition to the obligations of Parent and the Company to complete the Merger, each of Parent and Company was to have received a Tax Opinion from its respective Tax Counsel to the effect that the Merger will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and each of Parent and the Company will be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code and (iii) make such other changes as are necessary or appropriate in light of the foregoing amendments; and
WHEREAS, the parties desire that the amendments to the Merger Agreement provided for in this Amendment will, among other things, reflect the mutual intention of the parties to restructure the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement to ensure that except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, neither the Merger nor the Second Merger will result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. . The preamble to the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Preamble
"AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated as of June 11, 2008 (as amended through the date hereof, the ""), among Invitrogen Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Atom Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned Subsidiary of Parent (""), Atom Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly-owned Subsidiary of Acquisition Sub (""), and Applied Biosystems Inc. (formerly known as Applera Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Parent
Acquisition Sub
Merger Sub
Company
 
WHEREAS, the respective Boards of Directors of Parent, the Company and Merger Sub, Acquisition Sub, acting in its capacity as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, and Parent, acting in its capacity as the sole member of Acquisition Sub, have each determined that it is advisable and fair to and in the best interests of Parent, the Company, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub, respectively, and the stockholders of Parent, Acquisition Sub, and the Company and the sole member of Merger Sub, respectively, for Parent and the Company to engage in a business combination in order to advance their respective long-term strategic business interests; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the foregoing, at the Effective Time (as defined in Section 1.3) the parties hereto intend to effect a merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company (the ""), with the Company continuing as the Surviving Corporation (as defined in Section 1.1), all in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "") and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, and to effect a merger of the Surviving Corporation with and into Acquisition Sub (the ""), with Acquisition Sub continuing as the Surviving Company (as defined in Section 1.1) all in accordance with the DGCL and the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the ""); and
Merger
DGCL
Second Merger
DLLCA
WHEREAS, prior to the Effective Time, the Company has redeemed all of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company's Celera Group Common Stock (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) in exchange for shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of Celera Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), as a result of which the Company's Celera Group tracking stock business (the "") has been split off and, as of immediately following such split-off, was owned by the former holders of the Celera Group Common Stock (the ""); and
Celera Corporation
Celera Group
Celera Separation
WHEREAS, the respective Boards of Directors of Parent, Merger Sub, and the Company have approved and declared the Merger advisable, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, and Parent, acting in its capacity as the sole member of Acquisition Sub, and the Board of Directors of Merger Sub, have approved and declared the Second Merger advisable, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, subject to the fiduciary duties of the Company's Board of Directors under applicable Laws (as defined in Section 3.7(a)) and Section 5.4(d) of this Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company has resolved to recommend to the Company's stockholders the approval and adoption of this Agreement and the approval of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Parent has approved, and resolved to recommend to Parent's stockholders the approval of, the issuance of shares of Parent Common Stock (as defined in Section 4.2(a)) in connection with the Merger (the ""); and
Stock Issuance
WHEREAS, immediately following the execution of Amendment No. 2 to this Agreement, Acquisition Sub, as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, will act by written consent to approve and adopt this Agreement and approve the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, Parent, Acquisition Sub, Merger Sub, and the Company wish to make certain representations, warranties, covenants, and agreements in connection with the Merger and to prescribe certain conditions to the consummation of the Merger as set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, for United States federal income Tax purposes, the Merger is intended to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and this Agreement is hereby adopted as a plan of reorganization for purposes of Section 368 of the Code; and
Code
 
WHEREAS, it is intended that if the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, the Merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and
WHEREAS, terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Section 8.14, unless otherwise noted.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, and intending to be legally bound hereby, Parent, Acquisition Sub, Merger Sub, and the Company agree as follows:"
Section 2. . Section 1.1 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.1
"Section 1.1 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and in accordance with the DGCL, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company at the Effective Time. Following the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall cease, and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation (the "") and shall succeed to and assume all the rights and obligations of Merger Sub in accordance with the DGCL. At the Effective Time, immediately after the Merger, the Surviving Corporation shall be merged with and into Acquisition Sub pursuant to the Second Merger. Following the Second Merger, the separate corporate existence of the Surviving Corporation shall cease, and Acquisition Sub shall continue as the surviving company (the "") and shall succeed to and assume all the rights and obligations of the Company in accordance with the DGCL and the DLLCA."
The Merger
Surviving Corporation
Surviving Company
Section 3. . Section 1.3 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.3
"Section 1.3 . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, as promptly as practicable on the Closing Date, the parties shall file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a certificate of merger giving effect to the Merger (the ""), executed and acknowledged by the parties in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL, and as promptly as practicable on or after the Closing Date, shall make all other filings or recordings required under the DGCL. The Merger shall become effective upon the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, or at such later date and time as Parent and the Company shall agree and shall specify in the Certificate of Merger (the date and time that the Merger becomes effective being the ""). Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, immediately after the filing of the Certificate of Merger on the Closing Date, the parties shall file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a second certificate of merger with respect to the Second Merger (the ""), executed and acknowledged by the parties in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL and the DLLCA, and as promptly as practicable on or after the Closing Date, shall make all other filings or recordings required under the DGCL and the DLLCA. The Second Merger shall become effective upon the filing of the Second Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, and shall be deemed to have occurred at the Effective Time, immediately after the consummation of the Merger."
Effective Time
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
Second Certificate of Merger
Section 4. . Section 1.4 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.4
"Section 1.4 . At and after the Effective Time, the Merger shall have the effects set forth in this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the DGCL. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities and duties of the Company and Merger Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation. At and after the effective time of the Second Merger, the Second
Effects of the Merger and the Second Merger
 
Merger shall have the effects set forth in this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the DGCL and the DLLCA. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and subject thereto, at the effective time of the Second Merger all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Surviving Corporation and the Acquisition Sub shall vest in the Surviving Company, and all debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation and the Acquisition Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Company."
Section 5. . Section 1.5 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.5
"Section 1.5 .
Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Surviving Corporation; Certificate of Formation and Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Surviving Company
(a) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the Effective Time, the certificate of incorporation of Merger Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DGCL or therein, except that as of the Effective Time, Paragraph 1 of the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation shall be amended to reflect the name of the Company (or a variation thereof) as the name of the Surviving Corporation.
(b) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the Effective Time, the by-laws of Merger Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall become the by-laws of the Surviving Corporation, until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DGCL, the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation and such by-laws.
(c) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the effective time of the Second Merger, the certificate of formation of Acquisition Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, shall be the certificate of formation of the Surviving Company until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DLLCA or therein, except that as of the Effective Time, Paragraph 1 of the certificate of formation of the Surviving Company shall be amended to reflect the name of the Surviving Corporation (or a variation thereof) as the name of the Surviving Company.
(d) Subject to Section 5.12 of this Agreement, at the effective time of the Second Merger, the limited liability company agreement of Acquisition Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, shall become the limited liability company agreement of the Surviving Company, until thereafter changed or amended as provided by the DLLCA, the certificate of formation of the Surviving Company and such limited liability company agreement."
Section 6. . Section 1.6 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.6
"Section 1.6 . At the Effective Time, the directors of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation, each to hold office in accordance with the Surviving Corporation's certificate of incorporation and by-laws, in each case, as in effect from time to time. Parent, as the sole member of Acquisition Sub immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, shall, from and after the effective time of the Second Merger, continue to be the sole member of, and shall continue to manage, the Surviving Company, in accordance with the Surviving Company's limited liability company agreement and certificate of formation, in each case, as in effect from time to time."
Directors of Surviving Corporation; Sole Member of the Surviving Company
Section 7. . Section 1.7 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.7
"Section 1.7 . The officers of the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time, from and after the Effective Time, shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation, until the earlier of their death, resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be. The officers of the Surviving Corporation
Officers of Surviving Corporation and Surviving Company
 
immediately prior to the effective time of the Second Merger, from and after the effective time of the Second Merger, shall be the officers of the Surviving Company, until the earlier of their death, resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be."
Section 8. . Section 1.8 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 1.8
"Section 1.8 . If, at any time after the Effective Time or the effective time of the Second Merger, the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company, respectively, shall consider or be advised that any deeds, bills of sale, assignments, assurances or any other actions or things are necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm of record or otherwise in the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company its right, title or interest in, to or under any of the rights, properties or assets of either of the Company or Merger Sub acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving Corporation as a result of, or in connection with, the Merger, or any of the rights, properties or assets of either of the Surviving Corporation or Acquisition Sub acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving Company as a result of, or in connection with, the Second Merger, or otherwise to carry out this Agreement, the officers and directors of the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company, as applicable, shall be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of either the Company or Merger Sub, or the Surviving Company or Acquisition Sub, as applicable, all such deeds, bills of sale, assignments and assurances and to take and do, in the name and on behalf of any of such corporations or otherwise, all such other actions and things as may be necessary or desirable to vest, perfect or confirm any and all right, title and interest in, to and under such rights, properties or assets in the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company, as applicable, or otherwise to carry out this Agreement."
Subsequent Actions
Section 9. . Section 2.1(c) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 2.1(c)
"(c) . Each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Merger Sub shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation."
Conversion of Merger Sub Shares
Section 10. Section 2.1 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new subclause (f) at the end thereof:
Amendment to Add New Section 2.1(f).
"(f) . At the effective time of the Second Merger, by virtue of the Second Merger and without any action on the part of the Surviving Corporation or Acquisition Sub or the holders of any securities of the Surviving Corporation or Acquisition Sub: (i) each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist, and no consideration shall be issued or delivered in exchange therefor and (ii) each issued and outstanding limited liability company interest of Acquisition Sub shall be converted into one validly issued limited liability company interest of the Surviving Company."
Effect on Stock of Second Merger
Section 11. . References to the "Surviving Company" in Section 2.3(d) of the Merger Agreement are hereby amended to include references to the "Surviving Corporation."
Amendment to Section 2.3(d)
Section 12. . Section 2.3(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 2.3(g)
"(g) . At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed, and there shall be no further registration of transfers on the transfer books of the Surviving Corporation of the Company Common Stock which was outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, Certificates or Company Book-Entry Shares are presented to the Surviving Corporation, the Surviving Company or the Exchange Agent for any reason, they shall be cancelled and exchanged as provided in this Section 2.3, except as otherwise provided by Section 2.1(e)."
Closing of Transfer Books
 
Section 13. . Section 2.3(h) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the words "Acquisition Sub, the Surviving Corporation," after the word "Merger Sub" in the first sentence of Section 2.3(h).
Amendment to Section 2.3(h)
Section 14. . Section 3.15(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 3.15(g)
"(g) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has: (A) agreed to make or is required to make any adjustment for a taxable period ending after the Effective Time under Section 481(a) of the Code by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise, except where such adjustments do not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Company; (B) constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (I) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement or (II) in a distribution which could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) in connection with the Merger and the Second Merger; (C) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance (other than potential circumstances relating to the "continuity of interest requirement" under the Code) that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger and the Second Merger from together qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; or (D) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code."
Section 15. . The words "Parent and Merger Sub represent and warrant to the Company as follows:" at the end of the preamble to Article IV of the Merger Agreement are hereby deleted and replaced in their entirety with the following:
Amendment to Article IV
"Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub represent and warrant to the Company as follows:"
Section 16. . The third sentence of Section 4.1(b) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to add the word "Acquisition Sub," at the beginning of such sentence.
Amendment to Section 4.1(b)
Section 17. . Section 4.3(a) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 4.3(a)
"(a) Each of Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub has the requisite corporate or limited liability company power and authority to enter into this Agreement, subject to receipt of Parent Stockholder Approval (as defined in Section 4.19 of this Agreement), and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger and the Second Merger. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by the Board of Directors of Parent and Merger Sub, by Acquisition Sub, acting in its capacity as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, and by Parent, acting in its capacity as the sole member of Acquisition Sub, and, except for (i) the Parent Stockholder Approval, (ii) the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and (iii) the filing of the Second Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, no other corporate proceedings on the part of Parent or Merger Sub are necessary to authorize the consummation of the Merger, the Second Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The Board of Directors of Parent has determined (x) that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are fair to and in the best interest of Parent and its stockholders and (y) to recommend that such stockholders vote in favor of the approval of the Stock Issuance. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub and, assuming this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the other parties hereto, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of Parent, Acquisition Sub, and Merger Sub, enforceable against Parent, Acquisition Sub, and
 
Merger Sub in accordance with its terms (except to the extent that enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other Laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies)."
Section 18. . Section 4.15(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 4.15(g)
"(g) Neither Parent nor any of its Subsidiaries has: (A) agreed to make or is required to make any adjustment for a taxable period ending after the Effective Time under Section 481(a) of the Code by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise, except where such adjustments do not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Parent; (B) constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (I) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement or (II) in a distribution which could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) in connection with the Merger and the Second Merger; (C) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance (other than potential circumstances relating to the "continuity of interest requirement" under the Code) that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger and the Second Merger from together qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; or (D) taken any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance that is reasonably likely to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code."
Section 19. . Section 4.15(l) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendments to Section 4.15(l)
"All of the outstanding equity securities of Merger Sub are owned directly by Acquisition Sub. Merger Sub has outstanding no option, warrant, right, or any other agreement pursuant to which any person other than Parent or Acquisition Sub may acquire any equity security of Merger Sub. Merger Sub owns no assets, and has engaged in no activities, other than those necessary to effectuate the Merger. All of the outstanding equity securities of Acquisition Sub are owned directly by Parent. Acquisition Sub has outstanding no option, warrant, right, or any other agreement pursuant to which any person other than Parent may acquire any equity security of Acquisition Sub. Acquisition Sub owns no assets, and has engaged in no activities, other than those necessary to effectuate the Second Merger. No election has been filed to cause Acquisition Sub to be classified as a corporation for federal Tax purposes."
Section 20. . References in Section 4.23 to "Merger Sub" are hereby replaced with references to "Acquisition Sub." In addition, the words ", the Surviving Corporation" are hereby added to the fifth sentence of Section 4.23 after the words "expected to be sufficient for Parent."
Amendments to Section 4.23
Section 21. . Section 5.2 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.2
"Section 5.2 .
Tax-Free Treatment of the Merger
(a) The parties to this Agreement intend that, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, the Merger will not result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes,
(b) Neither the Company nor Parent shall, nor shall they permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, take or cause to be taken any action (including agreeing to any transaction or entering into any agreement), except with respect to the Celera Separation, that would result in the Merger and the Second Merger failing, as an integrated transaction, to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; or take or cause to take any action that would prevent the merger of Merger Sub into Company from
 
qualifying as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
(c) Parent and the Company shall use their commercially reasonable efforts, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to use all commercially reasonable efforts, to cause (i) the Merger and the Second Merger, as an integrated transaction, to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and (ii) the merger of Merger Sub into Company to qualify as a "qualified stock purchase" within the meaning of Section 338(d)(3) of the Code in the event that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, do not qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, including providing the representations, covenants and certificates referred to in Sections 5.5(d)(iii) and 6.1(g) of this Agreement."
Section 22. . Section 5.5(d)(iii) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.5(d)(iii)
"(iii) (A) cooperate with each other in obtaining a written opinion (each such opinion, a "") of its respective legal counsel, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, in the case of the Company, and DLA Piper LLP (US), in the case of Parent (each such counsel, ""), dated as of the Effective Time, to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations, assumptions and qualifications set forth in such opinion, the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and Parent and the Company each will be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code; and (B), cooperate with each other in obtaining a written opinion of its respective legal counsel (each such opinion, a ""), dated as of the Effective Time, to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations, assumptions and qualifications set forth in such opinion, except with respect to the effect, if any, of the Merger and the Second Merger on the Celera Separation, neither the Merger nor the Second Merger will result in the recognition of gain or loss to the Company or Parent for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In the event that Tax Counsel cannot conclude that the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, the Company and Parent shall cooperate with each other in obtaining a Tax Opinion of its respective Tax Counsel, dated as of the Effective Time, to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations, assumptions and qualifications set forth in such opinion, the Merger and the Second Merger, taken together, should be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and, if they are so treated, Parent and the Company each will be treated as a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code. In each case, each of the Company, Parent, Merger Sub and Acquisition Sub shall cooperate with each Tax Counsel and shall deliver to each Tax Counsel for purposes of each Tax Opinion and each Company Tax Opinion customary representations and covenants, including those contained in certificates of the Company, Parent, Merger Sub and others, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to each Tax Counsel. For the avoidance of doubt, it shall not be a condition to any party's obligation to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement that any Tax Opinion or Company Tax Opinion specified in this Section 5.2(b) has been obtained by either the Company or Parent."
Tax Opinion
Tax Counsel
Company Tax Opinion
Section 23. . Section 5.12 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 5.12
"Section 5.12 .
Indemnification and Insurance
(a) Parent, Merger Sub and Acquisition Sub agree that all rights to exculpation and indemnification, including rights to the advancement of expenses, for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time, whether asserted or claimed prior to, at or after the Effective Time (including any matters arising in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement), now existing in favor of the current or former directors, officers or employees, as the case may be (the ""), of the Company or its Subsidiaries as provided in their respective certificate of incorporation or by-laws or in any agreement shall survive the Merger and shall continue in full
Indemnified Parties
 
force and effect for a period of six (6) years from and after the Effective Time. For a period of six (6) years from and after the Effective Time, Parent, the Surviving Corporation and the Surviving Company shall (i) maintain in effect (A) the current provisions regarding indemnification of and the advancement of expenses to officers and directors contained in the Company Organizational Documents (or comparable organizational documents) of each of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (B) any indemnification agreements of the Company and its Subsidiaries with any of their respective directors, officers and employees existing as on the date hereof, and (ii) jointly and severally indemnify the Indemnified Parties to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. For purposes of the foregoing: (i) in the event any claim is asserted within the six-year period during which Parent, the Surviving Corporation and the Surviving Company are required to maintain the indemnification arrangements of the Company and its Subsidiaries, all such rights in respect of any such claim shall continue until disposition thereof; and (ii) any determination required to be made with respect to whether an Indemnified Party's conduct complies with the standards set forth under the DGCL, the Company Organizational Documents (or the organizational documents of the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company) or any such agreement, as the case may be, for purposes of the allowance of indemnification or advancement of expenses, shall be made by independent legal counsel selected by such Indemnified Party and reasonably acceptable to Parent. For a period of six (6) years from and after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company shall either cause to be maintained in effect the current policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by the Company or its Subsidiaries or provide substitute policies or purchase a "tail policy," in either case, of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions which are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the insured with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred on or before the Effective Time, except that in no event shall the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company be required to pay with respect to such insurance policies in respect of any one policy year more than 250% of the annual premium paid by the Company for such insurance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 (the ""), and if the Surviving Corporation or Surviving Company is unable to obtain the insurance required by this Section 5.12 it shall obtain as much comparable insurance as possible for an annual premium equal to the Maximum Amount.
Maximum Amount
(b) The provisions of this Section 5.12 are intended to be for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, each of the Indemnified Parties and their heirs and legal representatives.
(c) The rights of the Indemnified Parties and their heirs and legal representatives under this Section 5.12 shall be in addition to any rights such Indemnified Parties may have under the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or under any other applicable Laws.
(d) In the event that either Parent, the Surviving Corporation or the Surviving Company or any of their respective successors or assigns (A) consolidates with or merges into any other persons, or (B) transfers 50% or more of its properties or assets to any person, then and in each case, proper provision shall be made so the applicable successors and assigns or transferees assume the obligations set forth in this Section 5.12."
Section 24. . References in Section 5.16 to "Parent and Merger Sub" are hereby replaced with "Parent, Acquisition Sub and Merger Sub." In addition, the second sentence of Section 5.16 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to insert the words "Acquisition Sub or" between the words "permit" and "Merger Sub."
Amendments to Section 5.16
Section 25. . Section 6.1(g) of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 6.1(g)
"(g) [Intentionally Omitted]."
 
Section 26. . Section 8.6 of the Merger Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 8.6
"Section 8.6. . EACH OF PARENT, THE COMPANY, ACQUISITION SUB, AND MERGER SUB HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE ACTIONS OF PARENT, THE COMPANY, ACQUISITION SUB, OR MERGER SUB IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT HEREOF."
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 27. . The phrase "To Parent or Merger Sub," which precedes the address of Parent in Section 8.7 is hereby amended to read as follows:
Amendment to Section 8.7
"To Parent, Acquisition Sub, or Merger Sub."
Section 28. .
No Other Amendments to the Merger Agreement
28.1 On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Merger Agreement to "this Agreement," "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" or words of similar import shall mean and be a reference to the Merger Agreement as amended hereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, references to the date of the Merger Agreement, as amended hereby, shall in all instances continue to refer to June 11, 2008, references to "the date hereof" and "the date of this Agreement" shall continue to refer to June 11, 2008, and references to the date of the Amendment and "as of the date of the Amendment" shall refer to October 15, 2008.
28.2 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect. This Amendment is limited precisely as written and shall not be deemed to be an amendment to any other term or condition of the Merger Agreement or any of the documents referred to therein.
Section 29. . This Amendment shall form a part of the Merger Agreement for all purposes, and each party hereto and thereto shall be bound hereby. From and after the execution of this Amendment by the parties hereto, any reference to the Merger Agreement shall be deemed a reference to the Merger Agreement as amended hereby. This Amendment shall be deemed to be in full force and effect from and after the execution of this Amendment by the parties hereto.
Effect of Amendment
Section 30. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law
Section 31. . This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (including by facsimile), all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart.
Counterparts
Section 32. . The descriptive headings of the several Sections of this Amendment were formulated, used and inserted in this Amendment for convenience only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed or caused this Amendment to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized all as of the date first written above.
 
 


