FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20090728172935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
Item 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of the Current Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01 of the Current Form 8-K, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On July 28, 2009, Life Technologies Corporation, or the Company, issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended June 30, 2009. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
     Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial, sunk cost of the acquisition. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
     In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our non-GAAP results the following costs:
     Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
          99.1  Life Technologies Corporation press release dated July 28, 2009.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
: Amanda Clardy Vice President, Investor Relations (760) 603-7200
Investor and Financial Contacts
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today announced results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2009. Non-GAAP revenues for the first quarter were $839 million, an increase of 2 percent over second quarter revenues of $822 million in 2008, as if Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems had been combined. Excluding the impact from currency exchange rates, revenues grew 7.5 percent over the same period in the previous year.
CARLSBAD, CA, July 28, 2009
"I am very pleased with our strong financial results in the second quarter, despite continued challenges in the global macro-economic situation," said Greg Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Life Technologies. "These results, as well as our accelerated integration efforts, are a testament to the strong operating rigor prevalent throughout our company. In the second quarter, we were also able to demonstrate the value of combining Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems in other tangible ways. I'm particularly proud of the role we played in helping public health authorities around the globe quickly and efficiently respond to the outbreak of the H1N1 flu virus. Our ability to provide a complete solution to our customers in this critical time underscored not only the value of this combination, but also the impact Life Technologies has today on the health and welfare of people around the world."
First quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.22 which includes $0.42 per share of acquisition related amortization expense, $0.04 per share of non-cash interest expense associated with the adoption of FSP APB14-1, and $0.11 per share of business integration costs and other
 
expenses. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes these items, diluted earning per share were $0.79.
Analysis of Second Quarter 2009 Results
Business Highlights:
 
 
Debt Repayment of $200 Million
Late last week, the company reduced its outstanding debt balance by repaying $200 million of its Senior Secured Term Loan B. This debt is priced at LIBOR plus 300 basis points, with a LIBOR floor of 300 basis points and has a remaining balance of approximately $800 million.
Fiscal Year 2009 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company increased its expectations for fiscal year 2009 financial performance. Organic revenues in the second half of 2009 are expected to increase in the mid single digits, including a small impact from NIH stimulus funds. Full year non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.80. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the conference call today.
Use of Pro-forma statements for comparison purposes
Posted on the Company's investor relations website is a quarterly pro-forma 2008 Income Statement, down to operating income, for the combined companies of Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems. Also provided is quarterly revenue detail for each of Life Technologies' technology divisions. These pro-forma income statements are meant for reference only and represent what the company profitability would have been if Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems had been combined during those years. Interested parties may access this document at www.lifetechnologies.com / corporate/investor relations/financial reports/GAAP Reconciliations. In addition, incorporated in this press release is a table comparing the current quarter results to the same quarter from the previous year using the pro-forma data provided in the table titled Life Technologies Corporate Condensed Non-GAAP and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjustments. All comparisons of financial results from revenue to operating income will use the provided pro-forma statements.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 4:30 pm Eastern Time today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the company's Investor Relations website at . The webcast can be accessed through the investor relations page of the Life Technologies' website at . Alternatively, callers may listen to the live conference call by dialing 866.543.6405 (domestic) or 617.213.8897 (international) and use passcode 98399425. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Company's website and by phone through Tuesday,
www.lifetechnologies.com
www.lifetechnologies.com
 
August 18, 2009. The replay by phone can be accessed by dialing 888.286.8010 (domestic) or 617.801.6888 (international), passcode 24675569.
About Life Technologies
Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) is a global biotechnology tools company dedicated to improving the human condition. Our systems, consumables and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific exploration, driving to discoveries and developments that make life even better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance personalized medicine, regenerative science, molecular diagnostics, agricultural and environmental research, and 21st century forensics. Life Technologies had sales of more than $3 billion in 2008, employs approximately 9,500 people, has a presence in more than 100 countries, and possesses a rapidly growing intellectual property estate of approximately 3,600 patents and exclusive licenses. Life Technologies was created by the combination of Invitrogen Corporation and Applied Biosystems Inc. For more information on how we are making a difference please visit our website: .
www.lifetechnologies.com
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release includes forward-looking statements about our anticipated results that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the information contained in this press release, including, but not limited to, statements as to, financial projections, including revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share, momentum in 2009, plans to sustain and expand organic growth and increase operating margins, industry trends and Life Technologies' plans, objectives, expectations and strategy for its business, contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words "believe," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "target," "estimate," "expect" and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions ("will," "may," "could," "should," etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. Important factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in filings made by Life Technologies with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Life Technologies undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


