FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20100729080023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On July 29, 2010, Life Technologies Corporation, or the Company, issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended June 30, 2010. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs.
     Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial and sunk costs of acquisitions. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
     In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our non-GAAP results the following costs:
     Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance.
     See the information set forth under Item 2.02 above and attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
     The Company's press release issued on July 29, 2010, included the announcement of a stock repurchase program. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
LIFE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION (Registrant)
Date: July 29, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
: Eileen Pattinson Investor Relations (760) 603-7208
Investor and Financial Contacts
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today announced results for its second quarter ending June 30, 2010. Non-GAAP revenue for the second quarter was $906 million, an increase of 8 percent over the $839 million reported for the second quarter of 2009. Excluding the impact of currency and prior acquisitions and divestitures, organic revenue for the quarter grew 6 percent over the same period in the previous year.
CARLSBAD, CA, July 29, 2010
"I'm pleased with our second quarter results, which again demonstrates our ability to deliver sustained organic growth across our businesses," said Gregory T. Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Life Technologies. "Our continued focus on strong execution enabled us to once again deliver value to our shareholders through record levels of operating margin and strong year-over-year earnings per share growth."
Share Repurchase Program
The company also announced a share repurchase program for up to $350 million. This two-year program authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors. "We are continually assessing the best way to optimize shareholder value," said David F. Hoffmeister, Chief
 
Financial Officer of Life Technologies. "The share repurchase program reflects our strategy for balanced capital deployment. We will be within our target leverage after the convertible debt is redeemed, and given the company's free cash flow generation we have the ability to invest for future growth, as well as return excess cash to shareholders."
Analysis of Second Quarter 2010 Results
Business Highlights:
 
Fiscal Year 2010 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company updated its expectations for fiscal year 2010 financial performance. Organic revenues are expected to increase in the mid- to high-single digits and full year non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $3.35 to $3.50. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the conference call today.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 8:30 AM EDT today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the company's Investor Relations Web site at . The webcast can be accessed through the investor relations page of the Life Technologies' website at . Alternatively, callers may listen to the live conference call by dialing 866.788.0546 (domestic) or 857.350.1684 (international) and use passcode 83895683. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Company's website through Thursday August 12, 2010.
www.lifetechnologies.com
www.lifetechnologies.com
About Life Technologies
Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) is a global biotechnology tools company dedicated to improving the human condition. Our systems, consumables and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific exploration, driving to discoveries and developments that make life even better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance personalized medicine, regenerative science, molecular diagnostics, agricultural and environmental research, and 21st century forensics. Life Technologies had sales of $3.3 billion in 2009, employs approximately 9,000 people, has a presence in approximately 160 countries, and possesses a rapidly growing intellectual property estate of approximately 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. Life Technologies was created by the combination of Invitrogen Corporation and Applied Biosystems Inc., and manufactures both in-vitro diagnostic products and research use only-labeled products. For more information on how we are making a difference, please visit our website: http://www.lifetechnologies.com.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release includes forward-looking statements about our anticipated results that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the information contained in this press release, including, but not limited to, statements as to, financial projections, including revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share, momentum in 2010, plans to sustain and expand organic growth and increase operating margins, industry trends and Life Technologies' plans, objectives, expectations and strategy for its business, contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words "believe," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "target," "estimate," "expect" and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions ("will," "may," "could," "should," etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. Important factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in filings made by Life Technologies with the Securities and Exchange
 
Commission. Life Technologies undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 


