FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20101214163548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(760) 603-7200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On December 9, 2010, Life Technologies Corporation (the "") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "") with the several underwriters named therein, for whom Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. have acted as the representatives, for the issuance and sale by the Company of $400 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "") and $400 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.00% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "" and together with the 2016 Notes, the ""). A copy of the Underwriting Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Company
Underwriting Agreement
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
     Some of the underwriters and their affiliates have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, investment banking and other commercial dealings in the ordinary course of business with the Company or its affiliates. They have received, or may in the future receive, customary fees and commissions for these transactions.
     On December 14, 2010, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Company issued and sold $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes and $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes. The offering of the Notes was registered under an effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-164823). The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of February 19, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by a second supplemental indenture, dated as of December 14, 2010 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. A copy of the Base Indenture was filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2010 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Second Supplemental Indenture (including forms of the Notes) is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. The descriptions of the Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes in this report are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Second Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
     The net proceeds from the offering of approximately $790 million, after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, are expected to be used to for general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment of existing indebtedness.
     Interest on the 2016 Notes will accrue at a rate of 3.50% per annum and interest on the 2021 Notes will accrue at a rate of 5.00% per annum. Interest will be paid on the Notes from December 14, 2010 or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing July 15, 2011, until the principal is paid or made available for payment. The 2016 Notes will mature on January 15, 2016 and the 2021 Notes will mature on January 15, 2021.
     The Company may redeem the 2016 Notes and, prior to October 15, 2020, the 2021 Notes in whole or in part at any time prior to maturity at the applicable redemption prices which includes a make-whole premium, as described under the caption "Description of Notes Optional Redemption" in the prospectus relating to the offering of the Notes. Commencing on October 15, 2020, the Company may redeem the 2021 Notes in whole or in part at any time prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes being redeemed, as described under the caption "Description of Notes Optional Redemption" in the prospectus relating to the offering of the Notes.
     The Indenture contains covenants that restrict the Company's ability, with certain exceptions, to (i) merge or consolidate with another entity or transfer all or substantially all of its property and assets, and (ii) incur liens. These covenants are subject to important exceptions and qualifications, as described in the sections titled "Description of NotesCertain CovenantsMerger, Consolidation, or Sale of Assets" and "Description of NotesCertain CovenantsLimitation on Liens" in the prospectus relating to the offering of the Notes. The Indenture also provides for customary events of default.
     In the event of a change in control triggering event (as defined in the Second Supplemental Indenture), the holders of the Notes may require the Company to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
     The Notes will rank (i) equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future unsecured unsubordinated indebtedness, (ii) senior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future subordinated indebtedness and (iii) effectively subordinated in right of payment to any secured indebtedness, to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness, and to all existing and any future liabilities of the Company's
 
subsidiaries. The Notes will not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
     The opinion of DLA Piper LLP (US) dated December 14, 2010 provided in connection with the offering of the Notes is attached hereto as Exhibit 5.1.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     (a) The information provided under Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 2.03(a) by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
d.
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 14, 2010

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
December 9, 2010
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH      INCORPORATED RBS SECURITIES INC.
     As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH      INCORPORATED One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
RBS SECURITIES INC. 600 Washington Blvd Stamford, CT 06901
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Life Technologies Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "") proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.00% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "" and, together with the 2016 Notes, the ""). Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
Company
Underwriters
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
Representatives
     The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of February 19, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the ""), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
     The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-164823), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and
Commission
Base Prospectus
 
sale of debt securities, including the Notes, of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 4:05 p.m. on December 9, 2010 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
     The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
     Representations and Warranties of the Company
Section 1.
     The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
     a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
     At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to (A) statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof or (B) to the part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee.
     Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     b) The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated December 9, 2010, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the
Incorporated Documents
 
Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
     e) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
     f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
     g) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or any electronic road show or other written communications reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and listed on Annex II hereto (collectively, ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Company Additional Written Communication based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
Company Additional Written Communication
     h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
     i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
     j) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized by the Company and, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Indenture
     k) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
 
     l) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
     m) . The subsidiaries listed on Schedule B ("") attached hereto are the only "significant subsidiaries" of the Company (as defined in Rule 1-02(10) of Regulation S-X).
Significant Subsidiaries
Significant Subsidiaries
     n) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree and (ii) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, management, business, properties, results of operations or prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
     o) Ernst &Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.
     p) The financial statements of the Company and Invitrogen Corporation (""), and, to the knowledge of the Company, the financial statements of Applied Biosystems, Inc. (""), together with the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly, the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries, Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems, as the case may be, as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. The selected financial data and the summary financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. In addition, the pro forma financial statements and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, present fairly the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
Invitrogen
Applied Biosystems
 
to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein. No other financial statements are required to be included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement.
     q) Each of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, in the case of the Company, to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. Each of the Company and each subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. The Company does not have any subsidiary not listed on Exhibit 21 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 which is required to be so listed.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
     r) The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Capitalization" (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options, or upon conversion of outstanding convertible securities, in each case, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, as the case may be).
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters.
     s) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") under its charter, by-laws, or other organizational documents (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, as applicable, except, with respect to clause (ii) only, for such Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Change. The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary action (corporate or otherwise) and will not result in any Default under the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
Default
Existing Instrument
 
upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clause (ii) of this sentence, for such Defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances, consents or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (""). As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, including, without limitation, any agreement (a) extending or shortening the indebtedness incurred thereunder or contemplated thereby; (b) adding or deleting borrowers or guarantors thereunder; (c) increasing the amount of indebtedness incurred thereunder; or (d) otherwise altering the terms and conditions thereof) (the ""), the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
FINRA
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
Credit Agreement
     t) Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) which has as the subject thereof any officer or director of, or property owned or leased by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) relating to environmental or discrimination matters related to the Company or its subsidiaries, where any such action, suit or proceeding, if determined adversely, could, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
     u) No material dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that could, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
Labor Matters.
     v) Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, to the Company's knowledge, the Company or its subsidiaries own or possess a valid right to use all patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secret, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "") used by the Company or its subsidiaries in the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as proposed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted, except where the failure to so own or have the right to use such Intellectual Property would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no
Intellectual Property Rights.
Intellectual Property
 
infringement by third parties of any of the Company's Intellectual Property and there are no legal or governmental actions, suits, proceedings or claims pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened, against the Company (i) challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property, (ii) challenging the validity or scope of any Intellectual Property owned by the Company, or (iii) alleging that the operation of the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of a third party and which infringement, invalidity, inadequacy or violation would, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim.
     w) The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, and neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could result in a Material Adverse Change.
All Necessary Permits, etc.
     x) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each of its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected as owned in the financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above (or elsewhere in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus), in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects, except such as do not materially and adversely affect the value of such property and do not materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made of such property by the Company or such subsidiary. The real property, improvements, equipment and personal property held under lease by the Company or any subsidiary are held under valid and enforceable leases, with such exceptions as are not material and do not materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made of such real property, improvements, equipment or personal property by the Company or such subsidiary.
Title to Properties.
     y) The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except where a default to make such filings or payments would not result in a Material Adverse Change.
Tax Law Compliance.
     z) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Company Not an Investment Company.
Investment Company Act
     aa) The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
 
or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
     bb) There are no business relationships or related-party transactions involving the Company or any subsidiary or any other person required to be described in the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
Related Party Transactions.
     cc) None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
     "" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
FCPA
     dd) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
Money Laundering Laws
     ee) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
OFAC
     ff) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
 
violation of any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation, order, permit or other requirement relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including without limitation, laws, regulations, orders, permits or requirements relating to Releases or threatened Releases of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances or materials, or petroleum and petroleum products, by-products or breakdown products, asbestos-containing materials or polychlorinated byphenyls (collectively, ""), or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of, or exposure to, Materials of Environment Concern (collectively, ""), which violation includes, but is not limited to, noncompliance with any permits or other governmental authorizations under applicable Environmental Laws, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions thereof, nor has the Company or any of its subsidiaries received any written communication, whether from a governmental authority, citizens group, employee or otherwise, that alleges that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is in violation of, or has any liability under, any Environmental Law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change; (ii) there is no claim, action or cause of action filed with a court or governmental authority, no investigation with respect to which the Company has received written notice, and no written notice by any person or entity alleging potential liability for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, governmental responses costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, attorneys' fees or penalties arising out of, based on or resulting from the presence, or Release into the environment, of any Material of Environmental Concern at, to or sent from any location occupied, used, owned, leased or operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, now or in the past (collectively, ""), pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change; and (iii) to the best of the Company's knowledge, there are no past, present or anticipated future actions, activities, circumstances, conditions, events or incidents, including, without limitation, the Release or threatened Release of any Material of Environmental Concern, that reasonably could result in a violation of any Environmental Law, require expenditures to be incurred pursuant to Environmental Law, or form the basis of a potential Environmental Claim against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or against any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. "" means any releasing, spilling, emitting, escaping, seeping, discharging, depositing, disposing, leaking, pumping, pouring, dumping, emptying, injecting or leaching into or upon any water, land or air or otherwise entering the environment.
Materials of Environmental Concern
Environmental Laws
Environmental Claims
Release
     gg) . In the ordinary course of its business, the Company conducts a periodic review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations, products and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated costs and liabilities (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties). On the basis of such review
Periodic Review of Costs of Environmental Compliance
 
and the amount of its established reserves, the Company has reasonably concluded that such associated costs and liabilities would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
     hh) The Company and its subsidiaries and any "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (collectively, "")) established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or their ERISA Affiliates (as defined below) are in compliance in all material respects with ERISA. "" means, with respect to the Company or a subsidiary, any member of any group of organizations described in Sections 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), of which the Company or such subsidiary is a member. No "reportable event" (as defined under ERISA) has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any "employee benefit plan" established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. No "employee benefit plan" established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates, if such "employee benefit plan" were terminated, would have any "amount of unfunded benefit liabilities" (as defined under ERISA), except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Neither the Company, its subsidiaries nor any of their ERISA Affiliates has incurred or reasonably expects to incur any liability under (i) Title IV of ERISA with respect to termination of, or withdrawal from, any "employee benefit plan," (ii) Sections 412, 4971 or 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code, or (iii) Section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the excise tax imposed thereunder, except, in each case, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Each "employee benefit plan" established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates that is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code has received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service and nothing has occurred, whether by action or failure to act, which is reasonably likely to cause disqualification of any such employee benefit plan under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
ERISA Compliance.
ERISA
ERISA Affiliate
Internal Revenue Code
     ii) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
     jj) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
Company's Accounting System.
     kk) The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is
Internal Controls and Procedures.
 
permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
     ll) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or in any document incorporated by reference therein, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
     mm) The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act; such disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company and its subsidiaries is made known to the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer by others within those entities; and such disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
     nn) . There are no franchises, contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement which have not been so described and filed as required.
Accuracy of Exhibits
     Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
     
Section 2.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
          a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.140% of the principal amount of the 2016 Notes and 98.756% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
The Notes.
          b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10022 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on December 14, 2010, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
          c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
 
          d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
     It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
          e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates in global form through the facilities of the Depositary for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
     
Section 3.
Covenants of the Company.
     The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
          a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 within the time period specified by Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
 
          b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement, or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
          c) The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
          d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
          e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
          f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.
          g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
          h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
          i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
          j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
 
          k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and attached as Exhibit B hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
          l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
          m) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
          n) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457I of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
          o) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to
No Manipulation of Price.
 
constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
     The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
     The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the Notes, including without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of aircraft and other transportation chartered in connection with the road show, (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xii) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Section 4.
Payment of Expenses.
     The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the
Section 5.
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
 
Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
          a) . The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
          b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
          c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
          d) If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Notes has been filed with the FINRA for review, the FINRA shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection.
          e) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
     (i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change; and
     (ii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
 
          f) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of such Closing Date, of (1) DLA Piper LLP (US), counsel for the Company, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
          g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
          h) On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or a Senior Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
     (i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
     (ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
     (iii) the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
     (iv) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
          i) On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents.
     If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
     If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, 10, 11(i) or 11(iv), or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or
Section 6.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
 
such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
     This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Section 7.
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
     
Section 8.
Indemnification.
     (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
provided, however
     (b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
 
loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the fifth and eighth paragraphs and the third sentence of the seventh paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
     (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless:
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
(i) the employment of such counsel has been expressly authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
     (d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
     If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each
Section 9.
Contribution.
 
indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
     The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
 
     If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Section 10.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
     As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
     Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the Nasdaq Stock Market, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to offer or deliver the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to
Section 11.
Termination of this Agreement.
 
any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
     . . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate; any review by the Underwriters of the Company, the transactions contemplated hereby or the matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company. The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Underwriters, or any of them, has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
Section 12
No Fiduciary Duty
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
     The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Section 13.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
 
     All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Section 14.
Notices.
     If to the Representatives:
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith      Incorporated One Bryant Park NY1-100-18-03 New York, NY 10036 Facsimile: 646-855-5958 Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
and
RBS Securities Inc. 600 Washington Blvd Stamford, CT 06901 Facsimile: 203-873-4534 Attention: Debt Capital Markets Syndicate
with a copy to:
Shearman & Sterling LLP 599 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 10022 Facsimile: 646-848-4813 Attention: Michael J. Schiavone
     If to the Company:
Life Technologies Corporation 5791 Van Allen Way Carlsbad, CA 92008 Facsimile: 760-602-6632 Attention: David L. Szekeres, Head Counsel, M&A, Governance & Securities and Assistant Secretary
with a copy to:
DLA Piper LLP (US) 1251 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10020 Facsimile: 212-884-8692 Attention: Jamie Knox, Esq.
 
     Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
     This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Section 15.
Successors.
     The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Section 16.
Partial Unenforceability.
     THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE. The Company and each of the Underwriters agree that any suit or proceeding arising in respect of this agreement or our engagement will be tried exclusively in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if that court does not have subject matter jurisdiction, in any state court located in The City and County of New York and the Company and each of the Underwriters agree to submit to the jurisdiction of, and to venue in, such courts.
Section 17.
Governing Law Provisions.
     This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 18.
General Provisions.
     19. The Company and each of the Underwriters hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section
Waiver of Trial by Jury.
     20. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company is authorized to disclose to any persons the U.S. federal and state income tax treatment and tax structure of the potential transaction and all materials of any kind (including tax opinions and other tax analyses) provided to the Company relating to that treatment and structure, without the Underwriters, imposing any limitation of any kind. However, any information relating to the tax treatment and tax structure shall remain confidential (and the foregoing sentence shall not
Section
Tax Treatment.
 
apply) to the extent necessary to enable any person to comply with securities laws. For this purpose, "tax structure" is limited to any facts that may be relevant to that treatment.
     21. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement. As used herein, the term "business day" shall mean any day when the Commission's office in Washington, D.C. is open for business.
Section
Business Day.
     22. In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
Section
Patriot Act Acknowledgement.
     Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
     The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
Applied Biosystems, LLC (Delaware) Applied Biosystems International, Inc (Delaware) Molecular Probes, Inc. (Oregon) Life Technologies Japan Ltd (Japan) Applied Biosystems Asia Pte Ltd (Singapore)
 
Final Term Sheet dated December 9, 2010, a copy of which is filed with the Commission as a "free writing prospectus" pursuant to Rule 433.
 
[NONE]
 
December 14, 2010
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH      INCORPORATED RBS SECURITIES INC.
     As Representatives of the several Underwriters c/o
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH      INCORPORATED One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
RBS SECURITIES INC. 600 Washington Blvd Stamford, CT 06901
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Life Technologies Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.00% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "" and, together with the 2016 Notes, the ""). The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "") dated February 19, 2010 by and between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture under the Base Indenture (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes and the Indenture are described in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the ""), in the form in which it was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), including the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Company
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Registration Statement
Commission
Act
 
This opinion is furnished pursuant to Section 5(f) of the Underwriting Agreement dated December 9, 2010 (the ""), by and between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein that are not defined shall have the respective meanings given them in the Underwriting Agreement.
Underwriting Agreement
Underwriters
A. . We have examined such documents as we have deemed advisable or necessary for the purpose of rendering this opinion, including the following:
Documents
     (A) the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-164823), as filed by the Company with the Commission on February 10, 2010, for the purpose of registering the Notes under the Act, and the documents and information incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein;
     (B) the Preliminary Prospectus, as filed by the Company with the Commission on December 9, 2010 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) of the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated under the Act;
     (C) the Company's issuer free writing prospectus, as filed by the Company with the Commission on December 9, 2010 pursuant to Rule 433 of the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated under the Act;
     (D) the Prospectus, as filed by the Company with the Commission on December 9, 2010 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) of the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated under the Act;
     (E) the Base Indenture;
     (F) the Supplemental Indenture;
     (G) the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 3, 2010 (the "");
Certificate
     (H) the Sixth Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as certified by the Company's Assistant Secretary on the date hereof (the "");
Bylaws
     (I) certified copies of the certificates of incorporation, by-laws, certificates of formation and operating agreements, as applicable (the "") of each of the entities listed on hereto the ("");
Organizational Documents
Schedule 1
Subsidiary Opinion Parties
1
     (J) the stock records and minute books of the Company that were made available to us by the Company;
 
 
     (K) executed counterparts of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture and a specimen of each of the Notes;
     (L) the certificates of various corporate officers of the Company of even date herewith delivered by the Company to you pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement;
     (M) the Certificate of Good Standing of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware with respect to the Company, dated December 8, 2010;
     (N) the other closing documents delivered by the Company and the Underwriters on the date hereof;
     (O) the material contracts, as amended through the date of the Underwriting Agreement, listed on Sections 4 and 10 of the exhibit index to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and to the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010 (collectively, the "");
Material Contracts
     (P) certified copies of certain resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company relating to the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement; and
     (Q) an Officers' Certificate delivered by the Company in connection with our rendering this opinion (the "").
Officers' Certificate
As to factual matters, subject to the further limitations on the scope of our review and inquiry set forth below, we have relied solely upon an examination, and have assumed the accuracy, completeness and genuineness, of the documents (or other confirmatory statements) listed or identified in paragraphs (A) through (Q) above. We have not undertaken independently to verify the accuracy of the facts set forth in such certificates, documents and representations.
B. . We have assumed: (i) the genuineness and authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals; (ii) the conformity to genuine, authentic originals of all documents submitted to us as copies; (iii) the legal competence of all individuals executing documents; and (iv) the due authorization, execution and delivery of all documents by any party other than the Company when due authorization, execution and delivery are a prerequisite to the effectiveness thereof. To the extent that the Company's obligations under the Indenture or the Notes may be dependent upon such matters, we have also assumed that: (i) the Trustee under the Indenture has been duly organized, is validly existing and is in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; (ii) the Trustee is duly qualified to engage in the activities contemplated by the Indenture; (iii) the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee and constitutes a legally valid, binding and enforceable obligation of the Trustee enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms; and (iv) the Trustee is in compliance, generally and with respect to acting as trustee under the Indenture, with all applicable laws and regulations.
Assumptions
With respect to our opinions in Paragraphs 1 and 2 to the effect that each of the Company and the Subsidiary Opinion Parties is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation and duly qualified as a foreign corporation or limited liability company, partnership or other entity to transact business in the jurisdictions set forth on
 
Schedules 2 and 3, we have relied solely upon the certificates of public officials of such jurisdictions.
With respect to our opinions in Paragraph 7, we have assumed that the statements made in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any further amendments and supplements referenced therein are correct and complete.
With respect to our opinions in Paragraph 8, we have assumed that the proceeds from the sale of the Notes are applied in the manner contemplated by the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
With respect to our opinion in Paragraph 8 regarding consent, approval, authorization, registration, filing or qualification, and with respect to violation of federal or state statutes, rules or regulations, we have not conducted any special investigation of laws or regulations, and our opinion with respect thereto is limited to such laws of the United States, the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and their rules and regulations as in our experience are of general application to transactions of the sort contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement.
We express no opinion as to the effect on the opinions herein stated of the legal or regulatory status or nature of the Underwriters, and have assumed the compliance of the Underwriters with all state, federal or other laws or regulations applicable to them.
C. . We express no opinion concerning: (i) any laws, other than with respect to the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal law of the United States; and (ii) any questions of choice of law, choice of venue or conflict of laws.
Limitation as to Specific Laws
D. . Based upon our examination of the foregoing, in reliance thereon, and subject thereto, we are of the opinion that, as of the date hereof:
Opinions
 
 
E. . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the opinions herein above expressed are subject to the following qualifications:
Qualifications
          (A) The effect of the general principles of equity, including, but not limited to, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief (regardless of whether such remedy is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
          (B) The effect of statutory law and judicial decisions that limit enforcement of an exculpatory or indemnity provision, including, without limitation, limitations on the enforcement of provisions that encompass indemnification or exculpation with respect to: (i) the negligence or willful misconduct of the party seeking relief or of any person for whom said party is legally responsible; (ii) violations of law by the party seeking relief or by any person for whom said party is legally responsible; or (iii) matters found to be contrary to statute or public policy.
          (C) The effect of judicial decisions and statutory law restricting enforcement of certain covenants and the availability of specific performance or any other remedy of a lender, if the violation of a covenant or the breach of a warranty is not material or if the action is not undertaken in good faith under the then-existing circumstances.
          (D) The effect of judicial decisions and statutes limiting the enforceability of provisions imposing penalties, forfeitures, late payment charges, an increase in interest rate, or payment or other additional consideration: (i) upon prepayment, late payment, maturity, default or a lender's election to accelerate a loan, particularly in cases where the occurrence of a default or waiving the benefit of a statutory right bears no reasonable relation to the damage suffered by the lender or is otherwise held to be a penalty; or (ii) as a consequence of costs incurred by a lender or imposition of governmental charges, taxes, levies or requirements upon a lender.
          (E) The enforceability of provisions regarding consent to service, jurisdiction, venue or forum of any claim, demand, action or cause of action arising under or related to the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture or the transactions contemplated therein. We express no opinion as to any provision purporting to waive rights to trial by jury, service of process or objections to the laying of venue or to forum on the basis of forum in connection with any litigation arising out of or pertaining to the Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture.
non conveniens
          (F) We express no opinion concerning whether the directors of the Company have complied with any applicable fiduciary duties in connection with the authorization, execution and performance of the Notes, the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement. In addition, we express no opinion with respect to: (i) the effect or availability of equitable remedies (regardless
 
of whether any such remedy is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity), including injunctive relief or specific performance; (ii) the effect of antitrust or trade regulation laws; or (iii) the compliance or non-compliance with the antifraud provisions of state and federal laws, rules and regulations concerning the issuance of securities.
          (G) We express no opinion as to the accounting or tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture under applicable federal, state and local income tax laws and regulations.
This opinion is intended for your sole and exclusive use and is not to be made available to or relied upon by other persons or entities without our prior express written consent. This opinion is rendered as of the date hereof and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any facts, circumstances, events or developments hereafter occurring or coming to our attention which may alter, affect or modify the opinions expressed herein.
Very truly yours,
 
December 14, 2010
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH      INCORPORATED RBS SECURITIES INC.
     As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH      INCORPORATED One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036
RBS SECURITIES INC. 600 Washington Blvd Stamford, CT 06901
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Life Technologies Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.00% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "" and, together with the 2016 Notes, the ""). The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "") dated February 19, 2010 by and between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture under the Base Indenture (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes and the Indenture are described in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the ""), in the form in which it was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), including the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Company
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Registration Statement
Commission
Act
This letter is furnished pursuant to Section 5(f) of the Underwriting Agreement dated December 9, 2010 (the ""), by and between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. as Representatives of the several
Underwriting Agreement
 
underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein that are not defined shall have the respective meanings given them in the Underwriting Agreement.
Underwriters
The establishment or confirmation of factual matters or financial or quantitative information is beyond the scope and purpose of our professional engagement in this matter. Therefore, we are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package (except for those set forth in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Description of Notes", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Notes and the Indenture), and we have not made any independent check or verification thereof. However, in the course of acting as counsel to the Company in connection with the preparation by the Company of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, we have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the Underwriters, counsel for the Underwriters and the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company during which conferences the contents of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package and related matters were discussed.
Based upon our participation described above, we advise you that nothing has come to our attention that caused us to believe that (i) the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements, schedules and other financial data contained therein or omitted therefrom, as to which we express no view), as of the time it became effective or is deemed to have become effective under Section 11(d) of the Securities Act and Rule 430(B) thereunder contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) the Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements, schedules and other financial data contained therein or omitted therefrom, as to which we express no view), as of the Execution Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (iii) the Prospectus (other than the financial statements, schedules and other financial data contained therein or omitted therefrom, as to which we express no view), as of its date and the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
This letter is intended for your sole and exclusive use and is not to be made available or relied upon by other persons or entities without our prior express written consent. This letter is rendered as of the date hereof and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any facts, circumstances, events or developments hereafter occurring or coming to our attention which may alter, affect or modify the confirmations included herein.
Very truly yours,
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or RBS Securities Inc. can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 1-800-294-1322 or dg.prospectus distribution@bofasecurities.com; or RBS Securities Inc. at 1-866-884-2071.

Exhibit 4.2
Execution Version
 
 
          SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of December 14, 2010, between LIFE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the "").
Second Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
          , the Company and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of February 19, 2010 (the "," and together with the Second Supplemental Indenture, the ""), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Notes to be issued in one or mores series as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS
Base Indenture
Indenture
          , Section 901 of the Base Indenture provides, among other things, that the Company and the Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture, without the consent of any holders of Notes, to establish the form of any Note, as permitted by Section 201 of the Base Indenture, and to provide for the issuance of the Notes (as defined below), as permitted by Section 301 of the Base Indenture, and to set forth the terms thereof;
WHEREAS
          , the Company desires to execute this Second Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 201 of the Base Indenture to establish the form, and pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture to provide for the issuance, of a series of its senior notes designated as its 3.50% Senior Notes due January 15, 2016 (the "") and a series of its senior notes designated as its 5.00% Senior Notes due January 15, 2021 (the "," and together with the 2016 Notes, the ""), in an initial aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000, in the case of the 2016 Notes and $400,000,000 in the case of the 2021 Notes. The 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes are each a series of Notes as referred to in Section 301 of the Base Indenture.
WHEREAS
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
          , the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Sections 102 and 903 of the Base Indenture to the effect that the execution and delivery of the Second Supplemental Indenture is authorized or permitted under the Base Indenture and that all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture to the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture to be complied with by the Company have been complied with;
WHEREAS
          , the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Second Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS
          , all things necessary have been done by the Company to make this Second Supplemental Indenture, when executed and delivered by the Company, a valid and legally binding instrument; and
WHEREAS
          , all things necessary have been done by the Company to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, the valid obligations of the Company;
WHEREAS
 
          
NOW, THEREFORE:
          In consideration of the premises stated herein and the purchase of the Notes by the holders thereof, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:
          Section 1.01. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Second Supplemental Indenture, all provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture are expressly and solely for the benefit of the holders of the Notes and any such provisions shall not be deemed to apply to any other Notes issued under the Base Indenture and shall not be deemed to amend, modify or supplement the Base Indenture for any purpose other than with respect to the Notes. Unless otherwise expressly specified, references in this Second Supplemental Indenture to specific Article numbers or Section numbers refer to Articles and Sections contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture as they amend or supplement the Base Indenture, and not the Base Indenture or any other document. All Initial 2016 Notes and Additional 2016 Notes, if any, and all Initial 2021 Notes and Additional 2021 Notes, if any, will each be treated as a single class for all purposes of this Indenture, including waivers, amendments, redemptions and offers to purchase.
Application of Second Supplemental Indenture
          Section 2.01. . For purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture, all capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Base Indenture, as amended hereby.
Certain Terms Defined in the Indenture
          Section 2.02. . For the benefit of the holders of the Notes, Section 101 of the Base Indenture shall be amended by adding the following new definitions:
Definitions
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.02(b) hereto.
Additional Notes
          "" means the Notes are rated below Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies on any date commencing upon the first public notice by the Company of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
          "" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
          (1) direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation,
 
any merger or consolidation) as a result of which any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding voting stock or other voting stock into which the Company's voting stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; , that a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any "person" or "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), or any "person" or "group" consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's voting stock or the voting stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's voting stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the voting stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's board of directors are not Continuing Directors; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
provided, however
          "" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
          "" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
          "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (a) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (b) if fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations are obtained, the arithmetic average of those quotations or (c) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is obtained, such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of the Company who (1) was a member of the board of directors of the Company on the date hereof; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to the board of directors of the Company with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors of the Company at the time of such nomination or election (either by specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
          "" means Fitch, Inc. and any successors to its rating agency business.
Fitch
 
          "" means, individually and collectively, each of the Notes in the form of Global Notes issued to the Depositary or its nominee, substantially in the form of Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C.
Global Note
          "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.02(b) hereto.
Initial Notes
          "" means a rating by Moody's equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent under a successor rating category of Moody's), a rating by S&P equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P) or a rating by Fitch equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Fitch).
Investment Grade Rating
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successors to its rating agency business.
Moody's
          "" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereto.
Notes
          "" means the aggregate principal amount of all Outstanding Initial Notes and Additional Notes.
Principal Amount
          "" means (1) Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any or all of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
          "" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc., and their respective successors, or if at any time any of the above is not a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, any other nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Company that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, as well as two other nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers.
Reference Treasury Dealer
          "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided, however
 
the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business and any successor to its rating agency business.
S&P
          "" means, for any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to Maturity, computed as the second Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
          "" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph hereto.
Trustee
          "" means capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of the Company, even if the right to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
          Section 3.01. . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of and attached hereto. The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rules or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes and any beneficial interest in the Notes shall be in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Form and Dating
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
          The terms and notations contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Indenture, and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
          . The Notes shall be issued initially in global form (the ""), which shall be deposited with the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary and registered in the name of Cede & Co., the Depositary's nominee, duly executed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with Section 202 of the Base Indenture.
(a) Global Note
Global Note
          . This Section 3.01(b) shall apply only to the Global Notes deposited with the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary.
(b) Book-Entry Provisions
          The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 202 of the Base Indenture, authenticate, and hold each Global Note as custodian for the Depositary.
 
          Section 3.02. . The following terms relating to the Notes are hereby established pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture:
Terms of the Notes
          (a) . The 2016 Notes shall constitute a series of Notes having the title "3.50% Senior Notes due 2016" and the 2021 Notes shall constitute a separate series of Notes having the title "5.00% Senior Notes due 2021".
Title
          (b) . The aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes (the "") and the 2021 Notes (the "," and together with the Initial 2016 Notes, the "") that may be initially authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be $400,000,000 and $400,000,000, respectively. The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the holders of Notes, issue additional 2016 Notes (in any such case "") or additional 2021 Notes (in any such case, "," and together with any Additional 2016 Notes, the "") having the same ranking and the same interest rate, Maturity and other terms as the Initial 2016 Notes or the Initial 2021 Notes, as the case may be (except for the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such Additional Notes, or, in some cases, the first Interest Payment Date following the issue of such Additional Notes). Any Additional 2016 Notes and the Initial 2016 Notes, as the case may be, and any Additional 2021 Notes and the Initial 2021 Notes, as the case may be, shall each constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the 2016 Notes shall include the Initial 2016 Notes and any Additional 2016 Notes and all references to the 2021 Notes shall include the Initial 2021 Notes and any Additional 2021 Notes, unless the context otherwise requires. The aggregate principal amount of each of the Additional 2016 Notes and Additional 2021 Notes shall be unlimited.
Principal Amount
Initial 2016 Notes
Initial 2021 Notes
Initial Notes
Additional 2016 Notes
Additional 2021 Notes
Additional Notes
          (c) . The entire Outstanding principal of the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes shall be payable on January 15, 2016 and January 15, 2021, respectively.
Maturity Date
          (d) . The rate at which the 2016 Notes shall bear interest shall be 3.50% per annum and the rate at which the 2021 Notes shall bear interest shall be 5.00% per annum; the date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be December 14, 2010, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for; the Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning July 15, 2011; the interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date, will be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or July 1, as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Interest Rate
          (e) . The Trustee shall be the initial Paying Agent and Security Registrar. Payment of the principal and interest shall be at the corporate office of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York; , that each installment of interest and principal on the 2016 Notes or the 2021 Notes may at the Company's option be paid by check to the holders at the holder's address in the Security Register. The 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes shall initially be issued as Global Notes. Payments with respect to Notes represented by one or more Global Notes shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by the Depositary. Payments with respect to Notes represented by one or
Payment
provided, however
 
more Definitive Notes held by a holder of at least U.S.$1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes shall be made by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or the Paying Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 10 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee or Paying Agent may accept in its discretion).
          (f) . The currency of denomination of the Notes is United States Dollars. Payment of principal of and interest and premium, if any, on the Notes shall be made in United States Dollars.
Currency
          Section 3.03. .
Optional Redemption
          (a) The provisions of Article Eleven of the Base Indenture, as amended by the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes.
          (b) The 2016 Notes and, prior to October 15, 2020, the 2021 Notes shall be redeemable, in each case, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Company's option. Upon redemption of the Notes, the Company shall pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
     (i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2016 Notes or the 2021 Notes to be redeemed, as the case may be, and
     (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of the 2016 Notes or the 2021 Notes to be redeemed, as the case may be, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points in the case of the 2016 Notes and 30 basis points in the case of the 2021 Notes,
, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date.
plus
          Commencing on October 15, 2020, the 2021 Notes shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at the Company's option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the applicable series of Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date according to the Notes and the Indenture.
          (c) On and after the Redemption Date for the Notes, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any. On or before the Redemption Date for the Notes, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or a Paying Agent, funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the Notes to be redeemed on the Redemption Date, and
 
(except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes shall be redeemed in accordance with Section 1103 of the Base Indenture.
          (d) Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each holder of the Notes to be redeemed; , that the Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Date at least 15 days prior to the date of the giving of such notice (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee). Such notice shall be provided in accordance with Section 1104 of the Base Indenture. If the Redemption Price cannot be determined at the time such notice is to be given, the actual Redemption Price, calculated as described above in clause (b), shall be set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company delivered to the Trustee no later than two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date. Notice of redemption having been given as provided in the Indenture, the Notes called for redemption shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date, and from and after such Redemption Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any) such Notes shall cease to bear interest. Installments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date in accordance with the Indenture.
provided, however
          Section 3.04. .
Repurchase of Notes upon a Change of Control
          (a) If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company shall have exercised its option to redeem the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes in full, as set forth in Section 3.03 of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall make an offer (the "") to each holder of the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes to repurchase any and all (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of such holder's 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes at a repurchase price set forth in this Section 3.04. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes to be repurchased, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes to be repurchased up to, but not including, the date of repurchase (the ""). With respect to the Notes, within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall mail a notice to holders of Notes with a copy to the Trustee describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").
Change of Control Offer
plus
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
          (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
     (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
     (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
     (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating (1) the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased, (2) that all conditions precedent contained herein to make a Change of Control Offer have been complied with and (3) that the Change of Control Offer has been made in compliance with the Indenture.
          The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as possible after the date of purchase.
          (c) The Company shall comply in all respects with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of this Section 3.04, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 3.04 by virtue of any such conflict.
          Section 3.05. . Section 501 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended, in connection with this Second Supplemental Indenture, by inserting the following clause (9):
Amendment of Events of Default
     (9) failure of the Company to comply with the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Second Supplemental Indenture.
          Section 4.01. . If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act which is required under such Act or deemed to be a part of and govern this Second Supplemental Indenture, such required or deemed provision shall control. If any provision of this Second Supplemental Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Second Supplemental Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
          Section 4.02. .
New York Law to Govern
          THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OR ANY SUCCESSOR TO SUCH STATUTE). THE TRUSTEE AND THE COMPANY AGREE TO SUBMIT TO THE NON-
 
EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR STATE COURT LOCATED IN THE BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN, IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OR THE NOTES. THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE IS SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT THAT ARE REQUIRED TO BE PART OF THE INDENTURE AND SHALL, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE, BE GOVERNED BY SUCH PROVISIONS.
          THE TRUSTEE AND THE COMPANY HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF THE TRUSTEE OR THE COMPANY RELATING THERETO. THE COMPANY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT HAS RECEIVED FULL AND SUFFICIENT CONSIDERATION FOR THIS PROVISION AND THAT THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE TRUSTEE AND THE HOLDERS ENTERING INTO THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
          Section 4.03. . This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          Section 4.04. . In case any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
          Section 4.05. . The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed. The Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. All provisions included in this Second Supplemental Indenture with respect to the Notes supersede any conflicting provisions included in the Base Indenture unless not permitted by law. The Trustee accepts the trusts created by the Indenture, and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and conditions of the Indenture.
Ratification
          Section 4.06. . The provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the date hereof.
Effectiveness
          Section 4.07. . The Trustee accepts the trusts created by the Indenture, and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and conditions of the Indenture. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture or the due execution thereof by the Company. The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements solely of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof.
The Trustee
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY AND REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE), IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 309 OF THE INDENTURE AND (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
          Life Technologies Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of
 
[______________] Dollars ($_________) on January 15, 2016, and to pay interest thereon from December 14, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year, commencing July 15, 2011, to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on the immediately preceding January 1 or July 1, as the case may be, at the rate of 3.50% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, , that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 3.50% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand). The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Notes (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to holder of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
provided
however
          Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
          , the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
In Witness Whereof
 
          This is one of the Notes of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: December 14, 2010
 
      [Form of Reverse of Note] This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of February 19, 2010 as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture (herein collectively referred to as the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
          The Notes of this series are subject to redemption at any time, upon not less than 30 days' and not more than 60 days' notice by mail, as a whole or from time to time in part, at the election of the Company, on any date prior to their Stated Maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) of the Notes to be redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 25 basis points, , accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date.
plus
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date according to the Notes, the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture.
          "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes to be redeemed.
          "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (a) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (b) if fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations are obtained, the arithmetic average of those quotations or (c) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is obtained, such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation.
          "Independent Investment Banker" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc., and their respective successors, or if at any time any of the above is not a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, any other nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Company that is a primary U.S. Government securities
 
dealer, as well as two other nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
          "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
          "Treasury Rate" means, for any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to Maturity, computed as the second Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
          In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
          The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
          If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the holders of the Notes of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Notes of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Notes of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
 
          As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the holder of this Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes of this series, the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the holders of a majority in principal amount of Notes of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the holder of this Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered and this Note may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.
          The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
          No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          The Notes of this series shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (including without limitation Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law or any successor to such statute). The Trustee and the Company agree to submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any United States federal or state court located in the borough of Manhattan, in the city of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Notes.
          All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint ____________________ as agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Your Signature:
 
 
Your Name:
 
Date:______________
 
 
The following exchanges of an interest in this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of an interest in another Global Note or a Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note have been made:
 
EXHIBIT B
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY AND REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE), IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED PURSUANT TO SECTION 203(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 309 OF THE INDENTURE AND (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
          Life Technologies Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any
 
successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of [______________] Dollars ($_________) on January 15, 2021, and to pay interest thereon from December 14, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year, commencing July 15, 2011, to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on the immediately preceding January 1 or July 1, as the case may be, at the rate of 5.00% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, , that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 5.00% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand). The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Notes (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to holder of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
provided
however
          Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
          , the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
In Witness Whereof
 
          This is one of the Notes of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: December 14, 2010
 
     [Form of Reverse of Note] This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of February 19, 2010 as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture (herein collectively referred to as the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
          Prior to October 15, 2020, the Notes of this series are subject to redemption at any time, upon not less than 30 days' and not more than 60 days' notice by mail, as a whole or from time to time in part, at the election of the Company, on any date prior to their Stated Maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) of the Notes to be redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 30 basis points, , accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date. Commencing on October 15, 2020, the Notes of this series shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at the election of the Company, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date according to the Notes, the Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture.
plus
          "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes to be redeemed.
          "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (a) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (b) if fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations are obtained, the arithmetic average of those quotations or (c) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is obtained, such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation.
          "Independent Investment Banker" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
 
          "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc., and their respective successors, or if at any time any of the above is not a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, any other nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Company that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, as well as two other nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
          "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
          "Treasury Rate" means, for any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to Maturity, computed as the second Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
          In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
          The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
          If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the holders of the Notes of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Notes of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Notes of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of this
 
Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
          As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the holder of this Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes of this series, the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the holders of a majority in principal amount of Notes of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the holder of this Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered and this Note may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.
          The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
          No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          The Notes of this series shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (including without limitation Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law or any successor to such statute). The Trustee and the Company agree to submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any United States federal or state court located in the borough of Manhattan, in the city of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Notes.
 
          All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint ___________________ as agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Your Signature:
 
Your Name:
 
Date: _____________
 
 
The following exchanges of an interest in this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of an interest in another Global Note or a Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note have been made:

Exhibit 5.1
December 14, 2010
Life Technologies Corporation 5791 Van Allen Way Carlsbad, California 92008
Re: Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-164823); $400,000,000 3.50% Senior Notes due 2016 and $400,000,000 5.00% Senior Notes due 2021
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as special counsel to Life Technologies Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with (i) the issuance of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.00% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "" and, together with the 2016 Notes, the ""), under the Indenture, dated as of February 19, 2010 (the "") between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), pursuant to a second supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture, dated as of December 14, 2010 (together with the Base Indenture, the ""); (ii) the Company's automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-164823) (such automatic shelf registration statement, including the documents incorporated by reference therein and the information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act of 1933 (the ""), the "") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on February 10, 2010; (iii) a base prospectus, dated February 10, 2010, included in the Registration Statement at the time it originally became effective (the "") and a final prospectus supplement, dated December 9, 2010, filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act on December 10, 2010 (the ""); and (iv) the Underwriting Agreement dated December 9, 2010 (the ""), by and between the Company and Merill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the ""). This opinion is being furnished in connection with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act.
Company
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Commission
Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
Underwriting Agreement
Underwriters
     In connection with our representation of the Company, we are familiar with the proceedings taken and proposed to be taken by the Company in connection with the authorization and issuance of the Notes, and, for the purposes of this opinion, have assumed such proceedings will be timely completed in the manner presently proposed. In addition, we have made such legal and factual examinations and inquiries, including an examination of originals or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction of such documents, corporate records, certificates of officers and representatives of the Company and instruments, and we have made such inquiries of such officers and representatives of the Company, as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for our opinion. In our examination, we have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents. With your consent, we have relied upon the foregoing and upon certificates and other assurances of officers of the Company and others as to factual matters without having independently verified such factual matters.
      Subject to the foregoing and the other matters set forth herein, it is our opinion that, as of the date hereof:
 
     1. When the Notes have been duly issued in accordance with the Indenture, duly authenticated by the Trustee and duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Indenture and as contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement and assuming that (a) the terms of the Notes as executed and delivered are as described in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the related Prospectus Supplement, (b) the Notes as executed and delivered do not violate any law applicable to the Company or result in a default under or breach of any agreement or instrument binding upon the Company, (c) the Notes as executed and delivered comply with all requirements and restrictions, applicable to the Company, whether imposed by any court or governmental or regulatory body having jurisdiction over the Company or otherwise, and (d) the Notes are issued and sold as contemplated in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the related Prospectus Supplement, the Notes will constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
     The opinion expressed above is limited by, subject to and based on the assumptions, limitation and qualifications set forth below:
     (a) The validity and binding effect of the Notes may be limited or affected by bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether such validity and binding effect are considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and may be limited by applicable laws or policies underlying such laws.
     (b) The foregoing opinion is limited to the federal laws of the United States and the laws of the State of New York as in effect on the date hereof and the facts as they currently exist. We render no opinion herein as to matters involving the laws of any other jurisdiction. In rendering this opinion, we assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion should current laws, or interpretations thereof, be changed.
     (c) To the extent that the obligations of the Company under the Notes may be dependent upon such matters, we assume for purposes of this opinion that the Trustee is duly organized, validity existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; that the Trustee is duly qualified to engage in the activities contemplated by the Indenture; that the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee and constitutes the legally valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms; that the Trustee is in compliance, generally and with respect to acting as a trustee under the Indenture, with all applicable laws and regulations; and that the Trustee has the requisite organizational and legal power and authority to execute and deliver and to perform its obligations under the Indenture.
     In addition, we express no opinion with respect to (i) whether acceleration of the Notes may affect the collectibility of that portion of the stated principal amount thereof that might be determined to constitute unearned interest thereon, (ii) compliance with laws relating to permissible rates of interest, (iii) the creation, validity, perfection or priority of any security interest, mortgage, or lien, or (iv) any provision to the extent it requires any party to indemnify any other person against loss in obtaining the currency due following a court judgment in another currency.
     We have not been requested to express and, with your consent, do not render any opinion as to the applicability to the obligations of the Company under the Indenture or the Notes of Sections 547 and 548 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or applicable state law relating to preferences and fraudulent transfers and obligations.
     This opinion is for your benefit in connection with the Registration Statement and may be relied upon by you and by persons entitled to rely upon it pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act. We consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 9, 2010 and to the reference to our firm contained in the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement under the heading "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ DLA Piper LLP (US)


