FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20110728061225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On July 28, 2011, Life Technologies Corporation, or the Company, issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended June 30, 2011. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported non-GAAP results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP results exclude merger related non-cash items and other costs. Additionally, the discussion surrounding sales performance related to these results excludes the impact of currency fluctuations period over period and acquisitions to measure core sales growth. This growth rate is referred to as organic growth.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our non-GAAP calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the non-GAAP presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the costs related to acquisitions. Also included in the non-GAAP results are certain business transformation cash expenses which Management does not believe are indicative of profitability for ongoing business activities. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our non-GAAP results the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. Management uses non-GAAP earnings as a primary indicator in planning and forecasting for future periods, including trending the Company's core performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and uses these results to measure performance at a corporate level. The Company also uses non-GAAP earnings for evaluating management's performance for compensation purposes.
Item 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
See the information set forth under Item 2.02 above and attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Life Technologies Corporation press release dated July 28, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 28, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Investor and Financial Contacts:
Eileen Pattinson
Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today announced results for its second quarter ending June 30, 2011. Non-GAAP revenue for the second quarter was $945 million, an increase of 4 percent over the $906 million reported for the second quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of currency, revenue growth for the quarter was 3 percent compared to the same period prior year.
CARLSBAD, CA, July 28, 2011
"Our second quarter results were lower than anticipated, the result of continued budget pressure on academic and government funded research in the US and Europe, the lingering effects of the Japan earthquake on the 5500 launch, and a temporary slowdown in our China business resulting from the evolution of our commercial strategy," said Gregory T. Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Life Technologies. "That said, we are taking concerted actions to address these challenges and are expecting growth to increase in the second half of the year. To offset the pressures on life science industry funding, which we expect to continue for the remainder of the year, we are accelerating a number of cost savings initiatives which will create a much leaner organization by the end of 2011. We have made good progress on the 5500 launch and continue to gain significant traction with our Ion Torrent products. And finally, the third quarter marks our return to higher growth in China and the payoff from our change in strategy there. We expect our growth in the region to return to historic levels over the next several quarters."
Share Repurchase Program
The company announced a $200 million share repurchase program, which supplements an existing authorization. In total, the company now has authorization to repurchase up to $500 million in shares on the open market, subject to market conditions and other factors.
Analysis of Second Quarter 2011 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Outlook:
Comments are subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release.
Looking ahead to the second half of 2011, the company expects constant currency revenue growth to be between 3 and 5 percent. The acceleration in total company revenue growth rate from the first half of 2011 is expected to result from an increase in revenue growth in China, and continued strong growth in sales of the Ion Torrent PGM.
Resulting fiscal year 2011 constant currency revenue growth is expected to be between 2 and 4 percent. This level of revenue growth is expected to result in approximately $3.70 to $3.80 of non-GAAP earnings per share.
Constant currency revenue growth for fiscal year 2012 is expected to be in the mid-single digits. This level of revenue growth is expected to result in double digit earnings growth.
The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the webcast today.
Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its webcast at 8:00 AM ET today. This webcast will contain forward-looking information. The webcast will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the webcast will be posted at the company's Investor Relations Web site at . The webcast can be accessed through the investor relations page of the Life Technologies' website at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the company's website through Thursday, August 18, 2011.
www.lifetechnologies.com
http://ir.lifetechnologies.com/events.cfm
About Life Technologies
Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) is a global biotechnology company dedicated to improving the human condition. Our systems, consumables and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific and medical advancements that make life even better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance the fields of discovery and translational research, molecular medicine, stem cell-based therapies, food safety and animal health, and 21st century forensics. The company manufactures both molecular diagnostic and research use only products. Life Technologies' industry-leading brands are found in nearly every life sciences lab in the world and include innovative instrument systems under the Applied Biosystems and Ion Torrent names, as well as, the broadest range of reagents with its Invitrogen, GIBCO, Ambion, Molecular Probes and Taqman products. Life Technologies had sales of $3.6 billion in 2010, has a workforce of approximately 11,000 people, has a presence in approximately 160 countries, and possesses one of the largest intellectual property estates in the life sciences industry, with approximately 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. For more information on how we are making a difference, please visit our website: .
http://www.lifetechnologies.com
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and Life Technologies intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created thereby. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements about the expected future business and financial performance of the company. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to financial projections, including revenue and pro forma EPS projections; success of acquired businesses, including cost and revenue synergies; development and increased flow of new products; leveraging technology and personnel; advanced opportunities and efficiencies; opportunities for growth; expectations of prospective new standards, new delivery platforms, and new selling specialization and effectiveness; and corporate strategy and performance. A number of the matters discussed in this press release and presentation that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments, including future research and development plans. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: volatility of the financial
markets; and the risks that are described from time to time in Life Technologies' reports filed with the SEC. This press release and presentation speaks only as of its date, and the company disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Non-GAAP Measurements
This press release includes certain financial information which constitutes "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by the SEC. The GAAP measures which are most directly comparable to these measures, as well as a reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures, can be found at on the Investor Relations portion of the company's website at .
www.lifetechnologies.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


