FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20110426160825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On April 26, 2011, Life Technologies Corporation, or the Company, issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended March 31, 2011. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported non-GAAP results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP results exclude merger related non-cash items and other costs. Additionally, the discussion surrounding sales performance related to these results excludes the impact of currency fluctuations period over period and acquisitions to measure core sales growth. This growth rate is referred to as organic growth.
     Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our non-GAAP calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the non-GAAP presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the costs related to acquisitions. Also included in the non-GAAP results are certain business transformation cash expenses which Mangement does not believe are indicative of profitability for ongoing business activities. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
     In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our non-GAAP results the following costs:
     Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. Management uses non-GAAP earnings as a primary indicator in planning and forecasting for future periods, including trending the Company's core performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and uses these results to measure performance at a corporate level. The Company also uses non-GAAP earnings for evaluating management's performance for compensation purposes.
Item 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     See the information set forth under Item 2.02 above and attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     (d) Exhibits.
     99.1 Life Technologies Corporation press release dated April 26, 2011.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 26, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
:
Investor and Financial Contacts
Eileen Pattinson Investor Relations (760) 603-7208
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today announced results for its first quarter ending March 31, 2011. Non-GAAP revenue for the first quarter was $897 million, an increase of 1 percent over the $887 million reported for the first quarter of 2010. Organic revenue growth for the quarter was flat compared to the same period prior year, due to the impact of difficult year over year comparables and the extraordinary events that occurred in Japan. Excluding these items, organic growth for the quarter was 5 percent.
CARLSBAD, CA, April 26, 2011
"Our ability to drive performance is a direct result of our commitment to innovation and operational excellence," said Gregory T. Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Life Technologies. "We continue to invest in important new products and emerging markets while working to become ever more efficient in our operations. We have laid the groundwork to accelerate both revenue and earnings in the remainder of the year and we are on track to meet our full year financial goals."
Analysis of First Quarter 2011 Results
First quarter non-GAAP 2011 revenue increased 1 percent over the previous year. Revenue growth without the impact from currency, completed acquisitions and divestitures was flat.
 
Business Highlights:
 
Company and Technology Highlights:
 
Fiscal Year 2011 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company reiterated its expectations for fiscal year 2011 financial performance. Organic revenues are expected to increase in the mid-single digits. This level of organic revenue growth is expected to result in approximately $3.80 to $3.95 of non-GAAP earnings per share. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the webcast today.
Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its webcast at 4:30 PM ET today. This webcast will contain forward-looking information. The webcast will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the webcast will be posted at the company's Investor Relations Web site at . The webcast can be accessed through the investor relations page of the Life Technologies' website at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the company's website through Tuesday, May 17, 2011.
www.lifetechnologies.com
www.lifetechnologies.com
About Life Technologies
Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) is a global biotechnology company dedicated to improving the human condition. Our systems, consumables and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific and medical advancements that make life even better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance the fields of discovery and translational research, molecular medicine, stem cell-based therapies, food safety and animal health, and 21st century forensics. The company manufactures both molecular diagnostic and research use only products. Life Technologies' industry-leading brands are found in nearly every life sciences lab in the world and include innovative instrument systems under the Applied Biosystems and Ion Torrent names, as well as, the broadest range of reagents with its Invitrogen, GIBCO, Ambion, Molecular Probes and Taqman products. Life Technologies had sales of $3.6 billion in 2010, has a workforce of approximately 11,000 people, has a presence in approximately 160 countries, and possesses one of the largest intellectual property estates in the life sciences industry, with approximately 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. For more information on how we are making a difference, please visit our website: .
http://www.lifetechnologies.com
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and Life Technologies intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created thereby. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements about the expected future business and financial performance of the company. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements
 
relating to financial projections, including revenue and pro forma EPS projections; success of acquired businesses, including cost and revenue synergies; development and increased flow of new products; leveraging technology and personnel; advanced opportunities and efficiencies; opportunities for growth; expectations of prospective new standards, new delivery platforms, and new selling specialization and effectiveness; and corporate strategy and performance. A number of the matters discussed in this presentation that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments, including future research and development plans. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: volatility of the financial markets; and the risks that are described from time to time in Life Technologies' reports filed with the SEC. This press release speaks only as of its date, and the company disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Non-GAAP Measurements
This press release includes certain financial information which constitutes "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by the SEC. The GAAP measures which are most directly comparable to these measures, as well as a reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures, can be found at on the Investor Relations portion of the company's website at .
www.lifetechnologies.com
 
 
 
 


