FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20111025193124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective October 25, 2011, Bernd Brust has resigned as the President of Molecular Medicine of Life Technologies Corporation, or the Company, in order to pursue other opportunities. Pursuant to a Confidential Separation Agreement and General Release of All Claims and a Consulting Agreement entered into between Mr. Brust and the Company dated October 24, 2011, Mr. Brust will continue to serve as a consultant to the Company for a two-month period ending on December 31, 2011 to assist the Company with various endeavors.
Pursuant to the foregoing agreements, Mr. Brust will receive the following compensation and benefits: (1) a cash retainer of $5,000 per month during the consulting period; (2) continued vesting of his outstanding equity awards during the consulting period; (3) health benefits continuation at Company expense during the consulting period; and (4) nine months of outplacement assistance. In exchange for the foregoing compensation and benefits, Mr. Brust has executed a general release of claims.
The foregoing provides only a brief description of the terms and conditions of the Confidential Separation Agreement and General Release of All Claims and the Consulting Agreement with Mr. Brust, does not purport to be a complete description of the rights and obligations of the parties thereunder and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such agreements, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, respectively, and are incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Confidential Separation Agreement and General Release of All Claims ("Separation Agreement") is made by and between Life Technologies Corporation, and any affiliates, subsidiaries, and merged (predecessor) entities (collectively the "") and Bernd Brust ("") with respect to the following facts:
Company
Employee
A. Employee has been employed by the Company as a Head of Molecular Medicine.
B. Employee's employment will cease effective October 25, 2011 (""). The Company wishes to reach an amicable separation with Employee and assist Employee's transition to other employment. For the sake of clarity, the termination of Employee's employment on the Separation Date is not intended to create a termination of Service (as that term is defined in the Life Technologies 2009 Equity Incentive Plan).
Separation Date
C. Employee and Company entered into an Indemnification Agreement dated March 23, 2005 (""), which is incorporated into this Separation Agreement by reference. The parties intend that the Indemnification Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, notwithstanding the terms of this Separation Agreement and the Consultancy Agreement that is attached hereto as Attachment A.
Indemnification Agreement
D. The parties desire to settle all claims and issues that have been, or could have been, raised in relation to Employee's employment with the Company and arising out of or in any way related to the acts, transactions or occurrences between Employee, on the one hand and the Company on the other hand, to date, including, but not limited to, Employee's employment with the Company or the termination of that employment, on the terms set forth below.
THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual agreements hereinafter set forth, it is agreed by and between the undersigned as follows:
1. . If Employee executes this Separation Agreement, does not revoke it, and returns it to the Company by the deadline stated in Paragraph 19, the Company agrees to provide Employee with the following payments and benefits (""). Employee acknowledges and agrees that Employee is not otherwise entitled to such Severance Package, and that this Severance Package constitutes adequate legal consideration for the promises and representations made by Employee in this Separation Agreement.
Severance Package
Severance Package
1.1. . The Company will enter into a consultancy arrangement with Employee for a period up to, and not extending beyond, December 31, 2011 (""), at a rate of $5,000 per month. Employee understands and agrees that Employee must satisfy any Company-required prerequisites to becoming a consultant, including without limitation, executing a consulting agreement with the Company, substantially similar to the form attached as Attachment A. As a consultant, Employee will be eligible to vest in those equity grants with vesting dates that occur during the Consultancy Period. However, Employee understands and agrees that any equity grants that do not vest during the Consultancy Period will be forfeited in accordance with the terms of the governing grant agreements and Company plan documents. Employee acknowledges and agrees that during the Consultancy Period, Employee's relationship with the Company will be that of an independent contractor, not an employee of the Company. Employee further understands and agrees that if, at any time during
Consultancy
Consultancy Period
 
the Consultancy Period, Employee decides to perform consulting or other services for, or engage in or intend to engage in an employment relationship with another company, Employee shall notify the Company prior to accepting such service and secure Company's written approval. The Company reserves the right to terminate the consultancy agreement in accordance with the terms of the consulting agreement, which will result in Employee becoming ineligible to receive any further pay or other benefits associated with the consultancy.
1.2. . The Company agrees to continue through the end of the month in which Employee's Separation Date occurs, the same medical and dental coverage that was in effect immediately prior to the Separation Date. In addition, the Company will pay for the monthly premiums required to continue Employee's group health insurance coverage for an additional two (2) months, provided Employee elects to continue such benefits and remains eligible to receive such benefits in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985.
Continuation of Group Health Benefits
1.3. . The Company agrees to provide Employee with outplacement assistance, in an amount and level decided by Company, for nine (9) months. To remain eligible for Outplacement Services, Employee must commence the Outplacement Services within 60 days after the completion of the Consultancy Period, otherwise the benefits will expire. In no event will Employee receive a cash payment or other consideration in lieu of the Outplacement Services.
Outplacement Services
2. . The parties agree that Employee shall receive any and all benefits due to Employee upon termination of employment in accordance with Life Technologies' policies and benefits plans, including, without limitation, accrued but unused vacation pay, if applicable, and any vested pension or other vested retirement benefits.
Accrued and Vested Benefits
3. .
General Release
3.1. Except for the claims identified in the last sentence of this Paragraph 3.1, Employee unconditionally, irrevocably and absolutely releases (i.e., "gives up") and discharges the Company and any parent and subsidiary corporations, divisions and affiliated corporations, partnerships or other affiliated entities of the Company, past and present, including Invitrogen Corporation, Applera Corporation, and Applied Biosystems, Inc., as well as the Company's employees, officers, directors, agents, shareholders, successors and assigns (collectively, "Released Parties"), from all known and unknown claims that Employee may presently have related in any way to the transactions or occurrences between Employee and any Released Party. This general release includes, but is not limited to, Employee's employment with the Company, the termination of Employee's employment, and all other losses, liabilities, claims, charges, demands and causes of action, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, arising directly or indirectly out of or in any way connected with Employee's employment with the Company. This release is intended to have the broadest possible application and includes, but is not limited to, any tort, contract, common law, constitutional or other statutory claims arising under federal, state or local law, including, but not limited to, alleged violations of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C.  2101, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.  2000e, ., as amended; the Equal Pay Act, 29 U.S.C.  206, as amended; the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C.  12101, ., as amended; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 29 U.S.C.  621, as amended; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, 29 U.S.C.  1001 , as amended; the California Labor Code and Fair Employment and Housing Actand the anti-discrimination laws of the state in which Employee was employed; all claims for reprisal or retaliation under federal or state law;
et seq.;
et seq
et seq
et seq.,
et seq.
,
 
any claims for back pay, front pay, liquidated damages, compensatory or punitive damages, and injunctive relief; and all claims for attorneys' fees, costs and expenses. However, this general release is not intended to bar or release any claims that, by law or statute, may not be waived, such as claims for workers' compensation benefits, any challenge to the validity of Employee's release of claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, as set forth in this Separation Agreement and unemployment insurance benefits.
3.2. Employee acknowledges that Employee later may discover facts or law different from, or in addition to, the facts or law that Employee knows or believes to be true at the time Employee released the claims described in this Separation Agreement. Employee agrees, nonetheless, that this Separation Agreement and the release contained in it shall be and remain effective in all respects notwithstanding such different or additional facts or the discovery of them.
3.3. Employee declares and represents that Employee intends this Separation Agreement to be complete and not subject to any claim of mistake, and that the release herein expresses a full and complete release of all claims, known and unknown, suspected or unsuspected and, regardless of the adequacy or inadequacy of the consideration, Employee intends the release herein to be final and complete. Employee executes this Separation Agreement and, where applicable, with the full knowledge that this Separation Agreement's general release covers all possible claims (other than those claims specifically excepted from the release) against the Released Parties, to the fullest extent permitted by law.
3.4. Employee expressly waives Employee's right to recovery of any type, including damages or reinstatement, in any administrative or court action, whether state or federal, and whether brought by Employee or on Employee's behalf, related in any way to the matters released herein.
4. . Employee intentionally releases claims that Employee does not know he or she might have and that, with hindsight, Employee might regret having released. Employee expressly acknowledges and agrees that all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code are expressly waived. That section provides:
California Civil Code Section 1542 Waiver
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.
5. . Employee represents that, as of the date Employee signed this Separation Agreement, Employee has not filed any lawsuits, charges, complaints, petitions, claims or other accusatory pleadings against the Company or any Released Party in any court or with any governmental agency.
Representation Concerning Filing of Legal Actions
6. . Employee agrees that Employee will not make any voluntary statements, written or oral, or cause or encourage others to make any such statements that defame, disparage or in any way criticize the personal and/or business reputations, practices or conduct of the Company or any Released Party.
Nondisparagement
 
7. .
Confidentiality and Return of Company Property
7.1. . Employee agrees that the terms and conditions of this Separation Agreement and any discussions between Employee and the Company or any Released Party that led to the terms and conditions of this Separation Agreement (collectively referred to as the "Confidential Separation Information") are intended to remain confidential between Employee and the Company and/or such Released Party. Employee further agrees that Employee will not disclose the Confidential Separation Information to any other persons, except that Employee may disclose such information to Employee's immediate family members and to Employee's attorney(s) and/or accountant(s), if any, to the extent needed for legal advice or income tax reporting purposes. When releasing this information to any such person, Employee shall advise the person receiving the information of its confidential nature and treatment as such. Employee, and anyone to whom the Confidential Separation Information has been disclosed, will not respond to, or in any way participate in or contribute to, any public discussion, notice or other publicity concerning the Confidential Separation Information. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Employee specifically agrees that neither Employee, Employee's immediate family, Employee's attorney, nor Employee's accountant, if any, shall disclose the Confidential Separation Information to any current, former or prospective employee of the Company. Nothing in this section will preclude Employee from disclosing information required in response to a subpoena duly issued by a court of law or a government agency having jurisdiction or power to compel such disclosure, or from giving full, truthful and cooperative answers in response to a duly issued subpoena.
Confidential Separation Information
7.2. . Employee also agrees and represents that Employee has not and will not use, misuse, remove from the Company's premises without permission, make unauthorized copies of or disclose any confidential or proprietary information of the Company or any affiliated or related entities, including but not limited to, their trade secrets, copyrighted information, customer lists, any information encompassed in any research and development reports, work in progress, drawings, software, computer files or models, designs, plans, proposals, marketing and sales programs, financial projections, and all concepts or ideas, materials or information related to the business or sales of the Company and any affiliated or related entities. Employee acknowledges signing either: (i) Invitrogen's Information and Technology Agreement and Trade Secrets Policy; (ii) Applied Biosystems Conflict of Interest and Confidentiality Agreement; and/or (iii) Life Technologies' Information and Technology Agreement and Confidential Information and Trade Secrets Agreement (collectively referred to as the "Confidentiality Agreements") and agrees that the terms and conditions of any and all such agreements (including those signed prior to the merger or acquisition of any former employer with the Company) are expressly incorporated herein by reference, and survive the termination of Employee's employment. Employee also understands and agrees that Employee's obligations under any Insider Trading policy extend beyond Employee's employment with the Company.
Confidential or Proprietary Information
7.3. . Employee understands and agrees that as a condition of receiving the Severance Package described in Paragraph 1, all Company property must be returned to the Company on or before the Separation Date. By signing this Separation Agreement, Employee represents and warrants that Employee will return to the Company, on or before the Separation Date, all Company property, including but not limited to all confidential and proprietary information, as described in Paragraph 7.2 above, and all materials and documents containing trade secrets and copyrighted materials, including all copies and excerpts of the same.
Return of Company Property
 
7.4. . To prevent Employee from inevitably breaking the promises Employee has just made in Paragraph 7.2 above, Employee further agrees that, for twelve (12) months from the Separation Date (a) as to any customer or supplier of the Company or its affiliates with whom Employee had dealings or about whom Employee acquired proprietary information during Employee's employment, Employee will not solicit or attempt to solicit the customer or supplier to do business with any person or entity to the detriment of the Company where such solicitation uses the confidential or proprietary information of the Company; and (b) Employee will not solicit for employment any person who is, or within the preceding six (6) months was, an officer, manager, employee, or consultant of the Company or its affiliates, unless the individual was no longer employed by the Company before Employee's solicitation.
Promise Not to Solicit
8. . Employee agrees that Employee will fully cooperate with Company in connection with any claims, lawsuits, or proceedings that relate in any manner to Employee's conduct or duties at Company or that are based on facts about which Employee obtained personal knowledge while employed at Company. Any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Employee associated with such cooperation will be paid for or reimbursed by the Company.
Cooperation
9. . If Employee breaches any of the terms in Paragraphs 6 or 7 above or their subparts, the Company will immediately cease providing the Severance Package described in Paragraph 1 above, to the extent those payments and benefits have not yet been provided, to the fullest extent permitted by law. This shall in no way limit the Company's right to pursue all legal and equitable remedies available to it as a result of Employee's breach of the Separation Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Enforcement
10. . By entering into this Separation Agreement, the Company and any Released Party make no admission that they have engaged, or are now engaging, in any wrongdoing. The parties understand and acknowledge that this Separation Agreement is not an admission of liability and shall not be used or construed as such in any legal or administrative proceeding.
No Admissions
11. . Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Severance Package provided pursuant to this Agreement is in lieu of any other severance benefits to which Employee may be eligible under any other agreement and/or severance plan or practice (including but not limited to the Life Technologies Corporation Executive Officer Severance Plan) and Employee waives any and all rights to such other severance benefits.
No Other Severance Benefits
12. . Employee has not suffered any job-related wrongs or injuries, such as any type of discrimination, for which Employee might still be entitled to compensation or relief in the future. Employee has properly reported any and all job-related wrongs or injuries for which Employee might still be entitled to compensation or relief, such as an injury for which Employee might receive a workers' compensation award in the future. Employee has properly reported all hours that Employee has worked and Employee has been paid all wages, overtime, commissions, compensation, benefits, and other amounts that the Company or any Released Party should have paid Employee in the past.
Representation and Promise
13. . In the event any provision of this Separation Agreement shall be found unenforceable by an arbitrator or a court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to allow enforceability of the provision as so limited, it being intended that the parties shall receive the benefits contemplated herein to the fullest
Severability
 
extent permitted by law. If a deemed modification is not satisfactory in the judgment of such arbitrator or court, the unenforceable provision shall be deemed deleted, and the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby.
14. . The validity, interpretation and performance of this Separation Agreement shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the United States of America and the state of California.
Applicable Law
15. . The parties agree that this Separation Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, Employee's and the Company's successors, heirs and/or assigns.
Binding on Successors
16. . This Separation Agreement may be pled as a full and complete defense to, and may be used as a basis for an injunction against, any action, suit or other proceeding that may be prosecuted, instituted or attempted by Employee in breach hereof.
Full Defense
17. . The parties agree to do all things necessary and to execute all further documents necessary and appropriate to carry out and effectuate the terms and purposes of this Separation Agreement.
Good Faith
18. . This Separation Agreement and its attachment(s), including the Indemnification Agreement and the surviving provisions of the Confidentiality Agreements referenced in Paragraph 7.2 above, is intended to be the entire agreement between the parties relating to the termination of Employee's employment and any claims or future rights that Employee may have with respect to the Company and any Released Party. As such, this Separation Agreement and the incorporated Confidentiality Agreements supersede and cancel any and all other and prior agreements, written or oral, and represent the entirety of the agreements between Employee and the Company or its affiliates, including any predecessor or merged entities, regarding this subject matter. It is agreed that there are no collateral agreements or representations, written or oral, regarding the terms and conditions of Employee's separation of employment with the Company and settlement of all claims between the parties other than those set forth in this Separation Agreement, the Indemnification Agreement, and the surviving provisions of the Confidentiality Agreements. This Separation Agreement may be amended only by a written instrument executed by all parties hereto.
Entire Agreement/Modification
19. . This Separation Agreement is intended to satisfy the requirements of the Older Workers' Benefit Protection Act, 29 U.S.C.  626(f) (). Employee is advised to consult with an attorney before executing this Separation Agreement.
The Older Workers' Benefit Protection Act
"OWBPA"
19.1. . Employee acknowledges and agrees that (a) Employee has read and understands the terms of this Separation Agreement; (b) this Separation Agreement advises Employee in writing to consult with an attorney before executing this Separation Agreement; (c) Employee has obtained and considered such legal counsel as Employee deems necessary; (d) Employee has been given at least twenty-one (21) days to consider whether or not to enter into this Separation Agreement (although Employee may elect not to use the full consideration period at Employee's option); (e) and that by signing this Separation Agreement, Employee acknowledges that Employee does so freely, knowingly, and voluntarily. Employee agrees that any changes made to this Separation Agreement, whether material or not material, made prior to Employee's signing this Separation Agreement will not restart the time period to review and consider it. If Employee elects to sign this
Acknowledgments/Time to Consider
 
Separation Agreement, Employee must return it no later than the close of business on the twenty-first (21st) day after receiving this agreement to the Company at the following address: Lara de Leon, Life Technologies Corporation, 5791 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, CA 92008.
19.2. Employee may revoke his or her acceptance of this Separation Agreement at any time during the seven (7) days after signing it. To be effective, Employee's revocation must be made in writing and returned to the Company at the address provided in the above Paragraph 19.1, by the close of business on the seventh day after it was signed. If Employee does not revoke his or her acceptance in this manner within the seven (7) day period after signing the Separation Agreement, then Employee's acceptance of this Separation Agreement shall become binding and enforceable on the eighth day after Employee signs this Separation Agreement (""). The Severance Package shall become due and payable in accordance with the terms and conditions described in Paragraph 1 above and its subparts.
Revocation/Effective Date.
Effective Date
19.3. . This Separation Agreement does not waive or release any rights or claims that Employee may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act that arise after the execution of this Separation Agreement. In addition, this Separation Agreement does not prohibit Employee from challenging the validity of this Agreement's waiver and release of claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended.
Preserved Rights of Employee
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Consulting Agreement ("Agreement") is effective as of the date signed below ("Effective Date"), and is by and between Life Technologies Corporation, with a place of business at 5781 Van Allen Way, Carlsbad, California 92008 ("LTC"), and Bernd Brust, with a place of business at 149 3
rd
Street, Encinitas, CA 92024 ("Consultant").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consultant shall communicate regarding the Services with the following LTC employee:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
The attached document explains LTC's policy and some of the law regarding "Insider Trading" as they apply to LTC's independent contractors and consultants. It explains what "Insider Trading" is and what the rules are. EVERY INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR AND CONSULTANT NEEDS TO READ THE POLICY because anyone can be an "insider," and a violation of the law can result in heavy fines or even imprisonment. Below is a summary, but you should read the whole document.
You are encouraged to contact a competent, independent corporate securities lawyer if you have any questions or any doubts about whether you can trade any shares you may have. Also, the CFO and General Counsel of the Company are available to answer general questions about these rules.
. An "insider" is ANYONE who has information about a particular company or has access to information about that company that is both "material" (i.e., information that is likely to be considered important by an investor) and not available to the general public. For example, if a person knows or could easily find out that XYZ Corporation is going to earn twice as much money as everyone thought, and that fact has not been told to the general public, that person is an "insider," and the information is "material." It is illegal for an "insider" or person with that kind of information to buy or sell the company's securities, or tell another person to buy or sell the company's securities.
"Insider Trading" is Illegal
. From time to time it may be necessary, because of extraordinary events or transactions, for additional restrictions to be put into place to prevent insider trading. During these times a memo, letter or e-mail will be handed out informing everyone (or, in a limited blackout, certain identified individuals) not to trade LTC securities. For your own protection and the Company's, if a general blackout or a limited blackout relating to you is announced DO NOT trade or ask friends or family to trade LTC securities until a second memo, letter or e-mail is handed out, saying that trading is permitted.
General and Limited Blackouts
BOTTOM LINE: INSIDER TRADING CAN RESULT IN LARGE FINES AND WORSE. IF YOU WANT TO BUY OR SELL LTC SECURITIES AND YOU'RE NOT SURE ABOUT THE RULES, ASK BEFORE YOU TRADE.
 
The following is the insider trading policy of Life Technologies Corporation ("LTC" or the "Company") and outlines the procedures that all LTC independent contractors and consultants must follow in the purchase or sale of its securities. This policy and procedure arises from our responsibilities as a public company. LTC is providing this information to you to assist you in understanding the complicated rules governing sales and purchases of our securities. Failure to comply with these procedures could result in a serious violation of the securities laws by you and/or LTC and can involve both civil and criminal penalties. Violations may also result in disciplinary action by LTC, up to and including termination. It is important that you review our policy carefully.
LTC strongly encourages you to contact your own counsel if you have any doubt about whether your actions may constitute insider trading. In addition, the CFO and General Counsel can provide further answers to questions regarding these trading restrictions.
What is LTC's General Insider Trading Policy?
Any independent contractor or consultant deemed an "insider" (as defined below) associated with LTC who knows of any material information (as defined below) concerning LTC that has not been disclosed to the public must refrain from trading (purchase or sale), and must refrain from advising others to trade (tipping) in LTC securities until such information has been publicly disclosed by LTC. Insiders must also refrain from selling any Company securities he or she does not own (i.e., "short selling").
Does this Insider Trading Policy Apply to Information about Other Companies or Participation in Chat Rooms?
No insider who, by virtue of his or her position at LTC, comes into possession of material nonpublic information concerning another public company may (a) trade in the securities of any other public company, (b) "tip" or disclose the material nonpublic information to anyone, or (c) give trading advice of any kind to anyone concerning any other public company while possessing such material nonpublic information. This prohibition extends to insiders discussing our securities or the securities of our competitors or other companies with which we do business in "on-line chat rooms."
What if I Decided to Make a Trade Before Learning of the Material Inside Information?
It does not matter that you may have decided to engage in a transaction before learning of the undisclosed material information or that delaying the transaction might result in an economic loss. It is also irrelevant that publicly disclosed information about LTC might, even aside from the material undisclosed material information, provide a substantial basis for engaging in the transaction. LTC personnel simply cannot trade in LTC securities while in the possession of undisclosed material information about LTC.
 
What Should I do if I am Unsure About Making a Trade?
Any officer, director, employee, independent contractor or consultant who believes he or she would be regarded as an insider who is contemplating a transaction in LTC securities and who is unsure of the applicability of this policy must contact the CFO or General Counsel prior to executing any transaction to determine if he or she may properly proceed.
Does the Insider Trading Policy Affect my Family Members or Others with whom I am Affiliated?
It is the responsibility of each insider to ensure compliance with the Insider Trading Policy. To that end, insiders should not divulge material information to third parties. To the extent material inside information becomes known by any family member, it is the responsibility of the insider to ensure that the family member does not trade on such information. A transaction could be attributed to an insider if the insider has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in the securities involved in the transaction (i.e., the opportunity, directly or indirectly, to profit or share in any profit derived from the transaction). To the extent there is any confusion concerning the applicability of this provision, please contact the CFO or the General Counsel well in advance of the contemplated trade.
DEFINITIONS
An "insider" is a person who, regardless of his or her position in the company, possesses, or has access to, material information concerning LTC that has not been fully disclosed to the public. Insiders may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or civil liability for trading (purchase or sale) in LTC securities when they know material information concerning LTC that has not been fully disclosed to the public. Criminal prosecution for insider trading can and often does result in prison sentences for the violator. Civil actions may be brought by private plaintiffs or the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"); the SEC is authorized by statute to seek a penalty in such actions of the profits made or losses avoided by the violator. Also, in certain circumstances LTC may be able to recover all profits made by an insider, plus collect other damages.
Insider.
. Insider trading is not limited to trading by the insider alone; it is also illegal to advise others to trade on the basis of undisclosed material information. Liability in such cases can extend both to the "tippee" (the person to whom the insider disclosed inside information) and to the "tipper" (the insider himself or herself). Insiders may also be members of the immediate families (defined as direct family living in the same household) of such insiders. A person can be an insider for a limited time with respect to certain material information even though he or she is not an officer or director.
Tipping
Full disclosure to the public generally means a press release. A speech to an audience, a TV or radio appearance or an article in an obscure magazine do not qualify. Full disclosure means the securities markets have had the opportunity to digest the news.
Full Disclosure.
It is not possible to define all categories of material information. In general, information should be regarded as material if there is a likelihood that it would be considered important by an investor in making a decision regarding the purchase or sale of LTC
Material Information.
 
securities. While it may be difficult under this standard to determine whether certain information is material, there are various categories of information that would almost always be regarded as material, such as information covering proposed acquisitions, unanticipated changes in the level of sales, signing of a corporate partnership, publishing either good or poor clinical R&D or product data, pricing changes in contracts, planned stock splits, new stock or bond offerings and similar matters. If any insider has questions as to the materiality of information, he or she should contact the CFO or General Counsel.
NOTICE: Violation of this policy may result in disciplinary action by the Company, up to and including immediate termination. Note that such action would be separate from and would not limit any criminal or civil liability that may result from a violation.
I acknowledge that I have received a copy of the "LTC Corporation Insider Trading Policy (Independent Contractors and Consultants)" and the related Summary, and I agree to abide by the policies and procedures held therein:
 
 


