FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20110203160243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
          On February 3, 2011, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended December 31, 2010. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
          Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported pro forma results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The pro forma results exclude merger related non-cash items and other similar costs. Additionally, the discussion surrounding sales performance related to these results excludes the impact of currency fluctuations period over period and acquisitions to measure core sales growth. This growth rate is referred to as organic growth.
          Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our pro forma calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the pro forma presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the initial and sunk costs of acquisitions. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
          In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our pro forma results the following costs:
          Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. Management uses non-GAAP earnings as a primary indicator in planning and forecasting for future periods, including trending the Company's core performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and uses these results to measure performance at a corporate level. The Company also uses non-GAAP earnings for evaluating management's performance for compensation purposes.
          See the information set forth under Item 2.02 above and attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
:
Investor and Financial Contacts
Eileen Pattinson Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today announced results for its fourth quarter and full year ending December 31, 2010. Non-GAAP revenue for the fourth quarter was $934 million, resulting in full year non-GAAP revenues of $3.6 billion, an increase of 9 percent over the $3.3 billion reported for 2009. Excluding the impact of currency, and acquisitions, organic revenue for the quarter grew 5 percent over the same period in the previous year and 7 percent for the full year. Excluding H1N1 and the large Japanese forensics order from last year's numbers, organic growth was 9 percent for the fourth quarter and a record 9 percent for the full year.
CARLSBAD, CA, February 3, 2011
"I'm very pleased with our performance in the fourth quarter and throughout 2010," said Gregory T. Lucier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Life Technologies. "We made great strides as a company, including completing the integration a year ahead of schedule, launching numerous new products, and building out world-class operations. Looking ahead, we are well positioned to drive strong revenue growth and earnings with a robust pipeline of innovative products that continue to extend our reach into new end markets and geographies."
Analysis of Fourth Quarter 2010 and Fiscal Year 2010 Results
 
 
Business Highlights:
Company and Technology Highlights:
 
Fiscal Year 2011 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company provided its expectations for fiscal year 2011 financial performance. Organic revenues are expected to increase in the mid-single digits. This level of organic revenue growth is expected to result in approximately $3.80 to $3.95 of non-GAAP earnings per share. Including the foreign currency hedges already in place, currency is expected to have no impact on revenue growth rates in 2011 and a $0.13 negative impact on earnings per share. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the conference call today.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its conference call at 4:30 PM EST today. This conference call will contain forward-looking information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call will be posted at the company's Investor Relations Web site at . The webcast can be accessed through the investor relations page of the Life Technologies' website at . Alternatively,
ir.lifetechnologies.com/annuals.cfm
ir.lifetechnologies.com/events.cfm
 
callers may listen to the live conference call by dialing 877-280-7473 (domestic) or 707-287-9370 (international) and use passcode 37699079. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Company's website through Thursday, Tuesday, February 24, 2011.
About Life Technologies
Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) is a global biotechnology company dedicated to improving the human condition. Our systems, consumables and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific and medical advancements that make life even better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance the fields of discovery and translational research, molecular medicine, stem cell-based therapies, food safety and animal health, and 21st century forensics. The company manufactures both molecular diagnostic and research use only products. Life Technologies' industry-leading brands are found in nearly every life sciences lab in the world and include innovative instrument systems under the Applied Biosystems and Ion Torrent names, as well as, the broadest range of reagents with its Invitrogen, GIBCO, Ambion, Molecular Probes and Taqman products. Life Technologies had sales of $3.6 billion in 2010, employs approximately 11,000 people, has a presence in approximately 160 countries, and possesses one of the largest intellectual property estates in the life sciences industry, with approximately 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. For more information on how we are making a difference, please visit our website: .
http://www.lifetechnologies.com
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release includes forward-looking statements about our anticipated results that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the information contained in this press release, including, but not limited to, statements as to, financial projections, including revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share, momentum in 2011 and beyond, plans to sustain and expand organic growth and increase operating margins, industry trends and Life Technologies' plans, objectives, expectations and strategy for its business, contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words "believe," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "target," "estimate," "expect" and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions ("will," "may," "could," "should," etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. Important factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in filings made by Life Technologies with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Life Technologies undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
:
Investor and Financial Contacts
Eileen Pattinson Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
ir@lifetech.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


