FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20110428154850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     In conjunction with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of Life Technologies Corporation (the "Company") held on April 28, 2011, W. Ann Reynolds, Ph.D. retired from the Board of Directors (the "Board") in accordance with the retirement policy set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Principles, which provides that the Board only nominate directors who will be 72 years of age or younger on the date of election.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
At the Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's existing Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Former Certificate"). The newly approved Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Restated Certificate") includes provisions to: (i) phase out the classification of the Board, such that each director will be elected to a one year term beginning with the directors elected at the Company's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders; (ii) remove certain obsolete provisions contained in the Former Certificate; and (iii) add a new provision providing that, with certain exceptions, the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions will be the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware. The Board approved the Restated Certificate on February 24, 2011. The Restated Certificate was effective as of April 28, 2011. This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Restated Certificate, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
     On February 24, 2011, the Board approved certain changes to the Company's existing Bylaws (the "Former Bylaws") in the form of the Seventh Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Restated Bylaws") contingent upon, and effective immediately following, approval by the stockholders of the Restated Certificate at the Annual Meeting. The Restated Bylaws provide for de-classification of the Board and removal of directors consistent with the provisions in the Restated Certificate approved by the Company's stockholders. This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Restated Bylaws, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.07 Submission to a Vote of Security Holders
     (a) On April 28, 2011, the Company held its Annual Meeting. The Company filed its definitive proxy statement for the proposals voted upon at the Annual Meeting with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2011.
     (b) As of February 28, 2011, the record date for the Annual Meeting, 180,059,951 shares of the Company's common stock were issued and outstanding. A quorum of 153,452,300 shares of common stock were present or represented at the Annual Meeting. The number of votes cast for, against or withheld, as well as abstentions and broker non-votes, if applicable, with respect to each proposal is set out below:
          1. The following members of the Board of Directors were elected as Class III directors to serve until the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
     The following members of the Board of Directors were elected as Class I directors to serve until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
There were 13,704,827 broker non-votes with respect to each of the nominees, except for Balakrishnan S. Iyer who had 13,708,715 broker non-votes.
          2. Ratification of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011.
 
          3. The approval of the Restated Certificate. The Restated Certificate includes provisions to: (i) phase out the classification of the Board, such that each director will be elected to a one year term beginning with the directors elected at the Company's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders; (ii) remove certain obsolete provisions contained in the Former Certificate; and (iii) add a new provision providing that, with certain exceptions, the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions will be the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware.
          4. The approval of an advisory resolution regarding the compensation of the Company's named executive officers for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.
          5. The advisory vote regarding the frequency period for stockholder voting on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers.
The Company intends to disclose by an amendment to this Form 8-K the decision of its Board regarding the frequency period for the stockholder advisory vote on the compensation of its named executive officers.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2011

Exhibit 3.1
     LIFE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), hereby certifies as follows:
Corporation
     The name of this Corporation is LIFE TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION. Life Technologies Corporation was originally incorporated under the name Invitrogen Inc., and the original Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 21, 1997 under the name Invitrogen Inc. The Certificate of Incorporation was later amended and restated pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on June 12, 1997. The Corporation filed an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation on September 16, 1997. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was further amended pursuant to resolutions approved by the Board of Directors and Stockholders of the Corporation, and such amendments were filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 29, 1999, and September 14, 2000. The Corporation filed a Certificate of Correction to the September 14, 2000, Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State on February 21, 2001. The Corporation filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State on October 20, 2003 and filed a Certificate of Correction to the October 20, 2003 Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State on February 18, 2004. The Corporation filed a Certificate of Amendment to the October 20, 2003 Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State on June 1, 2006. The Corporation filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State and a Certificate of Correction to the March 27, 2001 Statement of Designation on September 14, 2006. The Corporation filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State on November 20, 2008. Under the name Life Technologies Corporation, the Corporation filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 6, 2009 and a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State on May 3, 2010.
ONE:
     This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been duly adopted by the directors and stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with Sections 245 and 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends and restates the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of this Corporation as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 3, 2010.
TWO:
     : The text of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore in effect is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
THREE
     The name of the Corporation is Life Technologies Corporation.
     The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is: 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is Corporation Services Company.
     The nature of the business or purposes to be conducted or promoted by the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     The total number of shares of capital stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 406,405,884, of which (a) 6,405,884 shares shall be preferred stock, par value $.01 per share (""), and (b) 400,000,000 shares shall be common stock, par value $.01 per share ("").
Preferred Stock
Common Stock
 
     The Corporation is authorized to issue, from time to time, all or any portion of the capital stock of the Corporation which may have been authorized but not issued, to such person or persons and for such lawful consideration as it may deem appropriate, and generally in its absolute discretion to determine the terms and manner of any disposition of such authorized but unissued capital stock.
     In addition, the Preferred Stock authorized by this Certificate of Incorporation may be issued from time to time in one or more series. Subject to the limitations and restrictions in this Article IV set forth, the Board of Directors, by resolution or resolutions, is authorized to create or provide for any such series, and to fix the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including, without limitation, the authority to fix or alter the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption (including sinking fund provisions), the redemption price or prices, the liquidation preferences and the other preferences, powers, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of any wholly unissued class or series of Preferred Stock and the number of shares constituting any such series, and the designation thereof, or any of them and to increase or decrease the number of shares of any series so created, subsequent to the issue of that series but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding. In case the number of shares of any series shall be so decreased, the shares constituting such decrease shall resume the status which they had prior to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing the number of shares of such series.
     There shall be no limitation or restriction on any variation between any of the different series of Preferred Stock as to the designations, preferences, privileges and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof; and the several series of Preferred Stock may, except as hereinafter in this Article IV otherwise expressly provided, vary in any and all respects as fixed and determined by the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the issuance of the various series; , , that all shares of any one series of Preferred Stock shall have the same designation, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions.
provided
however
     Any and all such shares issued for which the full consideration has been paid or delivered shall be deemed fully paid shares of capital stock, and the holder of such shares shall not be liable for any further call or assessment or any other payment thereon.
     Except as otherwise required by law, or as otherwise fixed by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors with respect to one or more series of Preferred Stock, the entire voting power and all voting rights shall be vested exclusively in the Common Stock, and each stockholder of the Corporation who at the time possesses voting power for any purpose shall be entitled to one vote for each share of such stock standing in his name on the books of the Corporation.
     The Corporation may issue fractional shares (up to five decimal places) of Common Stock. Fractional shares shall be entitled to dividends (on a pro rata basis), and the holders of fractional shares shall be entitled to all rights as stockholders of the Corporation to the extent provided herein and under applicable law in respect of such fractional shares. Shares of Common Stock, or fractions thereof, may, but need not be represented by share certificates. Such shares, or fractions thereof, not represented by share certificates (the "") shall be registered in the stock records book of the Corporation. The Corporation at any time at its sole option may deliver to any registered holder of such shares share certificates to represent Uncertificated Common Shares previously issued (or deemed issued) to such holder.
Uncertificated Common Shares
     In furtherance of and not in limitation of powers conferred by statute, it is further provided:
     1. .
Board of Directors
     (a) Election of Directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws of the Corporation so provide.
     (b) The number of Directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized Directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption). Commencing with the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the Directors whose terms expire at that meeting and all subsequent annual meetings of the Corporation's stockholders shall be elected annually for terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Class II directors elected at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders and the Class III directors elected at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders shall continue to serve until their terms would otherwise expire.
 
     (c) The election of directors shall occur at the annual meeting of holders of capital stock or at any special meeting called and held in accordance with the bylaws of the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of Directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation or other cause (other than the removal from office by a vote of the stockholders) may be filled only by a majority vote of the Directors then in office, though less than a quorum. Directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified; provided, however, that any director who is replacing a director who was in the course of serving a three-year term shall serve for the remainder of the predecessor's term. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
     2. The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, amend, or repeal the bylaws of the Corporation to the extent specified therein. The bylaws of the Corporation may be amended or repealed, and new bylaws may be adopted, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding voting power of all the then outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, or by a vote of at least a majority of the number of directors of the Corporation then authorized, in the manner prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Bylaws.
     Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the bylaws may provide. Stockholders may not take action by written consent and may act only at an annual or special meeting.
     To the extent permitted by law, the books of the Corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated in the bylaws of the Corporation or from time to time by its Board of Directors.
     No person shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of his or her fiduciary duty as a Director of the Corporation, except for liability (a) for any breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (b) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (c) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (d) for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. If the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware is amended after the effective date of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of each past or present Director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as so amended.
     Any repeal or modification of this Article VIII by (a) the stockholders of the Corporation or (b) an amendment to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (unless such statutory amendment specifically provides to the contrary) shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing at the time of such repeal or modification with respect to any acts or omissions occurring either before or after such repeal or modification, of a person serving as a Director prior to or at the time of such repeal or modification.
     Except for (1) actions in which the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware concludes that an indispensable party is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Delaware courts, and (2) actions in which a Federal court has assumed exclusive jurisdiction of a proceeding, any derivative action brought by or on behalf of the corporation, and any direct action brought by a stockholder against the Corporation or any of its directors or officers, alleging a violation of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Corporation's certificate of incorporation or bylaws or breach of fiduciary duties or other violation of Delaware decisional law relating to the internal affairs of the Corporation, shall be brought in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware, which shall be the sole and exclusive forum for such proceedings; provided, however, that the Corporation may consent to an alternative forum for any such proceedings upon the approval of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
     The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute; provided, however, that the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of all the then outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal Article V, Article VI, Article VIII, or this Article X. All rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been executed by the undersigned duly authorized officer of the Corporation on this 28th day of April, 2011.

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
     Section 1.1 . An annual meeting of the stockholders, for the election of directors to succeed those whose terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as the Board of Directors shall each year fix, which date shall be within thirteen months after the organization of the Corporation or after its last annual meeting of stockholders.
Annual Meeting
     Section 1.2 . Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes prescribed in the notice of the meeting, may be called by (1) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption), or (2) the Chairman of the Board, and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as they shall fix. Business transacted at special meetings shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice.
Special Meetings
     Section 1.3 . Written notice of the place, date, and time of all meetings of the stockholders, and specifying the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, if such date is different from the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting, shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date on which the meeting is to be held, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, as provided herein or otherwise required by law (meaning, here and hereinafter, as required from time to time by the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")). Notice of the time, place and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing, either before or after such meeting, and, to the extent permitted by law, will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat, in person or by proxy. If the Board of Directors fixes a date for determining the stockholders entitled to notice of a meeting of stockholders, such date shall also be the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, unless the Board of Directors determines, at the time it fixes such record date, that a later date on or before the date of the meeting shall be the date for making such determination.
Notice of Meetings
     When a meeting is adjourned to another place, date or time, written notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the place, date and time thereof, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and in such case shall
 
also fix as the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting; provided, further, that if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than thirty (30) days after the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, written notice of the place, date and time of the adjourned meeting shall be given in conformity herewith. At any adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
     Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the Corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if (i) the Corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the Corporation in accordance with such consent, and (ii) such inability becomes known to the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Corporation or to the transfer agent or other person responsible for the giving of notice; provided, however, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action. Notice given pursuant to this section shall be deemed given: (1) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (3) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder. An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the Corporation that the notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. For purposes of these Bylaws, "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
     Section 1.4 . At any meeting of the stockholders, the holders of a majority of all of the shares of the stock entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for all purposes, unless or except to the extent that the presence of a larger number may be required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of this Corporation.
Quorum
     If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time.
     If a notice of any adjourned special meeting of stockholders is sent to all stockholders entitled to vote thereat, stating that it will be held with those present constituting a quorum, then except as otherwise required by law, those present at such adjourned meeting shall constitute a quorum, and all matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast at such meeting.
 
     Section 1.5 . Such person as the Board of Directors may have designated or, in the absence of such a person, the Chairman, if there is such an officer, or if not, the Presiding Director of the Corporation, or in the absence of all of the above, such person as may be chosen by the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, shall call to order any meeting of the stockholders and act as chairman of the meeting. In the absence of the Secretary of the Corporation, the secretary of the meeting shall be such person as the chairman appoints.
Organization
     Section 1.6 . The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedure at the meeting, including such regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of discussion as seem to him in order.
Voting Procedures and Inspector of Elections
     The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
     The inspectors shall (i) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.
     The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxies or votes, nor any revocations thereof or changes thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls unless the Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine otherwise.
     In counting and determining the validity of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted with those proxies, any information provided in accordance with Sections 211(e) or 212(c)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or any information provided pursuant to Section 211(a)(2)(B)(i) or (iii) thereof, ballots and the regular books and records of the Corporation, except that the inspectors may consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for the limited purpose permitted herein, the inspectors at the time they make their certification pursuant to this section shall specify the precise information considered by them including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the
 
means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
     Section 1.7 . At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a meeting, business must be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. In addition to any other applicable requirements for business to be properly brought before the annual meeting by a stockholder, whether or not the stockholder is seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement or information statement under any applicable rule of the SEC, including, but not limited to, Regulation 14A or Regulation 14C under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal offices of the Corporation not less than 120 days or more than 150 days prior to the first anniversary (the "Anniversary") of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials (or, in the absence of proxy materials, its notice of meeting) for the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders. However, if the Corporation did not hold an annual meeting the previous year, or if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the Anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, then notice by the stockholder to be timely must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90 day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 15 day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Stockholder Proposals at Annual Meetings
th
th
     Other than with respect to stockholder proposals relating to director nomination(s) which requirements are set forth in Section 2.11 below, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting:
     (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting;
     (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business;
     (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder;
     (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business;
     (v) as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below) or any member of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household, whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or
 
understanding (including, but not limited to, any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares of stock) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss or increase profit to or manage the risk or benefit of stock price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder, such Stockholder Associated Person or family member with respect to any share of stock of the Corporation (each, a "Relevant Hedge Transaction"); and
     (vi) as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person or any member of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household, to the extent not set forth pursuant to the immediately preceding clause, (1) whether and the extent to which such stockholder, Stockholder Associated Person or family member has direct or indirect beneficial ownership of any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise, or any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation (a "Derivative Instrument"), (2) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder, Stockholder Associated Person or family member that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (3) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder, Stockholder Associated Person or family member is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (4) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder, Stockholder Associated Person or family member is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date). In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
     For purposes of this Section 1.7 and Section 2.11 hereof, "Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder shall mean (i) any person controlling or controlled by, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with the persons identified in (i) or (ii).
     Notwithstanding anything in the Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at the annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.7 and 2.11 hereof, provided, however, that nothing in this Section 1.7 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with said procedure.
     The Chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.7, and if he should so determine he shall so declare to the meeting, and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.7, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 1.7. Nothing in this Section 1.7 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
     Section 1.8 . At any meeting of the stockholders, every stockholder entitled to vote may vote in person or by proxy authorized by an instrument in writing filed in accordance with the procedure established for the meeting.
Proxies and Voting
     Each stockholder shall have one vote for every share of stock entitled to vote which is registered in his name on the record date for the meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law.
     Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him as proxy as described above, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority:
          (i) A stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or his authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
          (ii) A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission, by means of electronic transmission or otherwise, as permitted by law, to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the transmission was authorized by the stockholder. Such authorization can be established by the signature of the stockholder on the proxy, either in writing or by a signature stamp or facsimile signature, or by a number or symbol from which the identity of the stockholder can be determined, or by any other procedure deemed appropriate by the inspectors or other persons making the determination as to due authorization. If it is determined that such transmissions are valid, the inspectors or, if there are no inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied.
     Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
     Except as otherwise required by applicable law or by the Certificate of this Corporation or these Bylaws, at any meeting of stockholders for the election of one or more directors at which a quorum is present, each director shall be elected by the vote of a majority of the votes
 
cast with respect to the director, provided that if, as of a date that is ten (10) days in advance of the date on which the Corporation files its definitive proxy statement with the SEC (regardless of whether thereafter revised or supplemented), the number of nominees for director exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast by the stockholders entitled to vote at the election. For purposes of this Section 1.8, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director. The following shall not be votes cast: (a) a share otherwise present at the meeting but for which there is an abstention; and (b) a share otherwise present at the meeting as to which a stockholder gives no authority or direction. If a director then serving on the Board of Directors does not receive the required majority, the director shall tender his or her resignation to the Board. Within ninety (90) days after the date of the certification of the election results, the Governance and Nominating Committee or other committee that may be designated by the Board will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken, and the Board will act on such committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it. In addition, and except as otherwise required by law, rule or regulation, including any stock exchange rule or regulation applicable to the Corporation, or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all other matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast.
     Section 1.9 . The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make available, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting (or, if the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote is less than 10 days before the meeting date, the list shall reflect the stockholders entitled to vote on the tenth day before the meeting date), arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. The Corporation need not include electronic mail addresses or other electronic contact information on such list. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the Corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
Stock List
     Section 1.10 . The stockholders of the Corporation may not act by written consent and may act only at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders.
No Stockholder Action by Written Consent
 
     Section 2.1 . The number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption). The directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the stockholders, who shall vote for such directors as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. Commencing with the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting and all subsequent annual meetings of the Corporation's stockholders shall be elected annually for terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders, as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. All directors shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of the death, resignation or removal of any director. Directors need not be stockholders.
Number and Term of Office
     Section 2.2 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, or other cause (other then removal from office by a vote of the stockholders) may be filled only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum. Directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected; provided, however, that any director who is replacing a director who was in the course of serving a three-year term shall serve for the remainder of the predecessor's term. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
     Section 2.3 . Any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, but only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of its then outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from such removal may be filled by (i) a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or (ii) the stockholders at a special meeting of the stockholders properly called for that purpose, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at such special meeting. Directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that any director who is replacing a director who was in the course of serving a three-year term shall serve for the remainder of the predecessor's term.
Removal
     Section 2.4 . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place or places, on such date or dates, and at such time or times as shall have been established by the Board of Directors and publicized among all directors. A notice of each regular meeting shall not be required.
Regular Meetings
     Section 2.5 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by one third of the directors then in office (rounded up to the nearest whole number), by the chairman of the Board or by the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), or by the Presiding
Special Meetings
 
Director and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as they or he shall fix. Notice of the place, date, and time of each such special meeting shall be given each director by whom it is not waived:
          (i) by mailing written notice not less than five (5) days before the meeting;
          (ii) delivering written notice by overnight courier not less than one (1) day before the meeting
          (iii) delivering written notice by overseas courier service not less than two (2) days before the meeting; or
          (iv) providing notice thereof by telephone, any form of electronic transmission, or personal delivery, not less than twelve (12) hours before the meeting.
     Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting.
     Section 2.6 . At any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of authorized directors shall constitute a quorum for all purposes. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time, without further notice or waiver thereof.
Quorum
     Section 2.7 . Members of the Board of Directors, or of any committee of the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone
     Section 2.8 . At any meeting of the Board of Directors, business shall be transacted in such order and manner as the Board may from time to time determine, and all matters shall be determined by the vote of a majority of the directors present, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Action may be taken by the Board of Directors without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors.
Conduct of Business
     Section 2.9 . The Board of Directors may, except as otherwise required by law, exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the unqualified power:
Powers
          (i) To declare dividends from time to time in accordance with law;
          (ii) To purchase or otherwise acquire any property, rights or privileges on such terms as it shall determine;
 
          (iii) To authorize the creation, making and issuance, in such form as it may determine, of written obligations of every kind, negotiable or non negotiable, secured or unsecured, and
          (iv) To remove any officer of the Corporation with or without cause, and from time to time to pass on the powers and duties of any officer upon any other person for the time being;
          (v) To confer upon any officer of the Corporation the power to appoint, remove and suspend subordinate officers, employees and agents;
          (vi) To adopt from time to time such stock option, stock purchase, bonus or other compensation plans for directors, officers, employees and agents of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as it may determine;
          (vii) To adopt from time to time such insurance, retirement, and other benefit plans for directors, officers, employees and agents of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as it may determine;
          (viii) To adopt from time to time regulations, not inconsistent with these Bylaws, for the management of the Corporation's business and affairs; and
     Section 2.10 . Directors, as such, may receive, pursuant to resolution of the Board of Directors, fixed fees and other compensation for their services as directors, including, without limitation, their services as members of committees of the Board of Directors.
Compensation of Director
     Section 2.11 . In addition to any other applicable requirements, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or a proxy committee appointed by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of directors generally who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11 and who is a stockholder of record at the time notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. Any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of directors may nominate one or more persons for election as directors at a meeting only if timely notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with this Section 2.11, which shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations whether or not the stockholder is seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement or information statement under an applicable rule of the SEC, including, but not limited to, Regulation 14A or Regulation 14C under the Exchange Act. To be timely, in the case of a stockholder seeking to have a nomination included in the Corporation's proxy statement or information statement, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, not less than 120 days or more than 150 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials (or, in the absence of proxy materials, its notice of meeting) for the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders. However, if the Corporation did not hold an annual meeting the previous year, or
Nomination of Director Candidates
 
if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the Anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, then notice by the stockholder to be timely must be delivered to the Secretary at the Corporation's principal executive offices not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90 day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 15 day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
th
th
     The stockholder's notice relating to director nomination(s) shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the person, and (iv) any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act; (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and record address of the stockholder, and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined in Section 1.7), to the extent not set forth pursuant to the immediately preceding clause, whether and the extent to which any Relevant Hedge Transaction (as defined in Section 1.7) has been entered into, and (d) as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person, (i) whether and the extent to which any Derivative Instrument (as defined in Section 1.7) is directly or indirectly beneficially owned, (ii) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (iii) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (iv) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date). The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation. The stockholder giving such notice shall indemnify the Corporation in respect of any loss arising as a result of any false or misleading information or statement submitted by the nominating stockholder in connection with the nomination, as provided by Section 112(5) of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
     To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice as described above) to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of a such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written
 
representation and agreement (in the form provide by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (a) is not and will not become a party to (i) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (ii) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (b) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (c) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with, applicable law and all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, code of conduct, conflict of interest, confidentiality, stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
     In the event that a person is validly designated as a nominee in accordance with this Section 2.11 and shall thereafter become unable or unwilling to stand for election to the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors or the stockholder who proposed such nominee, as the case may be, may designate a substitute nominee upon delivery, not fewer than five days prior to the date of the meeting for the election of such nominee, of a written notice to the Secretary setting forth such information regarding such substitute nominee as would have been required to be delivered to the Secretary pursuant to this Section 2.11 had such substitute nominee been initially proposed as a nominee. Such notice shall include a signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation, if elected, of each such substitute nominee.
     No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11. If the chairman of the meeting for the election of directors determines that a nomination of any candidate for election as director at such meeting was not made in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Section 2.11, such nomination shall be void, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
     Section 3.1 . The Board of Directors, by a vote of a majority of the whole Board, may from time to time designate committees of the Board, with such lawfully delegable powers and duties as it thereby confers, to serve at the pleasure of the Board and shall, for those committees and any others provided for herein, elect a director or directors to serve as the member or members, designating, if it desires, other directors as alternate members who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any committee so designated may exercise the power and authority of the Board of Directors to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock or to adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation if the resolution which designates the committee or a supplemental resolution of the Board of Directors shall so provide. In the absence or disqualification of any member of any committee and any alternate member in his place, the member or members of the
Committees of the Board of Directors
 
committee present at the meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may by unanimous vote appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
     Section 3.2 . Each committee may determine the procedural rules for meeting and conducting its business and shall act in accordance therewith, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Adequate provision shall be made for notice to members of all meetings. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time, without further notice or waiver thereof. All matters shall be determined by a majority vote of the members present. Action may be taken by any committee without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee.
Conduct of Business
     Section 4.1 . The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a CEO, a Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), and a Secretary. The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, a President and COO, one or more division or functional Presidents, one or more Executive or Senior Vice Presidents, and such other officers as may from time to time be appointed by the Board of Directors. Officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors, which shall consider that subject at its first meeting after every annual meeting of stockholders. Each officer shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Generally
     Section 4.2 . The Chairman of the Board, if there shall be such an officer, shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors, and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may be from time to time assigned to him by the Board of Directors or as provided by these Bylaws.
Chairman of the Board
     Section 4.3 . Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board, if there be such an officer, the CEO shall be the general manager of the Corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and officers of the Corporation. He shall be ex officio a member of all the standing committees, including the executive committee, if any, and shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of the chief executive officer of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws. If the CEO is disabled or absent for an extended period (as determined in the discretion of the independent directors), the Board may appoint a director or officer to perform the duties of the CEO on an interim basis or otherwise, and when so acting such individual shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the CEO.
Chief Executive Officer
     Section 4.4 . The President and COO, if any, shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the CEO or these Bylaws.
President and Chief Operating Officer
 
     Section 4.5 . The CFO shall keep and maintain or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of account in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form. The CFO shall deposit all monies and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse all funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the CEO and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as CFO and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the CEO or these Bylaws.
Chief Financial Officer
     Section 4.6 . The Divisional or Functional Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the CEO or these Bylaws.
Divisional or Functional Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, or Senior Vice Presidents
     Section 4.7 . The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, a book of minutes in written form of the proceedings of the Board of Directors, committees of the Board, and stockholders. Such minutes shall include all waivers of notice, consents to the holding of meetings, or approvals of the minutes of meetings executed pursuant to these Bylaws or the General Delaware Corporation Law. The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept at the principal executive office or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a record of its stockholders, giving the names and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of shares held by each.
Secretary
     The Secretary shall give or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, and shall keep the seal of the Corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the CEO or these Bylaws.
     Section 4.8 . The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers or agents, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Delegation of Authority
     Section 4.9 . Any officer of the Corporation may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors.
Removal
     Section 4.10 . Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the CEO or any officer of the Corporation authorized by the CEO shall have power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the Corporation, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of stockholders of or with respect to any action of stockholders of any other corporation in which this Corporation may hold securities and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this Corporation may possess by reason of its ownership of securities in such other corporation.
Action With Respect to Securities of Other Corporations
 
     Section 5.1 . The shares of the Corporation may be represented by certificates or by uncertificated shares. Each stockholder shall be entitled to a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the CEO and by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, or the Chief Financial Officer, certifying the number of shares owned by him or her. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile.
Certificates of Stock
     Section 5.2 . Transfers of stock shall be made only upon the transfer books of the Corporation kept at an office of the Corporation or by transfer agents designated to transfer shares of the stock of the Corporation. Except where a certificate is issued in accordance with Section 5.4 of these Bylaws, an outstanding certificate for the number of shares involved shall be surrendered for cancellation before a new certificate is issued therefor.
Transfers of Stock
     Section 5.3 . The Board of Directors may fix a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor fewer than ten (10) days before the date of any meeting of stockholders, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the time for the other action hereinafter described, as of which there shall be determined the stockholders who are entitled: to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof; to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights; or to exercise any rights with respect to any change, conversion or exchange of stock or with respect to any other lawful action.
Record Date
     Section 5.4 . In the event of the loss, theft or destruction of any certificate of stock, another may be issued in its place pursuant to such regulations as the Board of Directors may establish concerning proof of such loss, theft or destruction and concerning the giving of a satisfactory bond or bonds of indemnity.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
     Section 5.5 . The issue, transfer, conversion and registration of certificates of stock shall be governed by such other regulations as the Board of Directors may establish.
Regulations
     Section 6.1 . Notice of Special Meetings of the Board shall be provided in accordance with Section 2.5 above. Except for such notices of Special Meetings and except as otherwise specifically provided herein or as required by law, all notices required to be given to any stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent shall be in writing and may in every instance be effectively given (i) by hand delivery to the recipient thereof, (ii) by depositing such notice in the mails, postage prepaid, (iii) by sending such notice by prepaid commercial courier service, or (iv) by any form of electronic transmission. Any such notice shall be addressed to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent at his last known address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation.
Notices
     Notice given pursuant to this section shall be deemed to have been given to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent, or person accepting such notice on behalf of such person, upon actual receipt of the notice, or, if the time of actual receipt is in dispute, no later than (i) at the time delivered by hand, (ii) five days after the notice is deposited prepaid in
 
the mails, (iii) one day after deposit (prepaid) with a domestic overnight courier service or two days after deposit (prepaid) with an overseas courier service, or (iv) when sent by any form of electronic transmission.
     Section 6.2 . A written waiver of any notice, signed by a stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent, whether before or after the time of the event for which notice is to be given, shall be deemed equivalent to the notice required to be given to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent. Neither the business nor the purpose of any meeting need be specified in such a waiver. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice for such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Waivers
     Section 7.1 . In addition to the provisions for use of facsimile signatures elsewhere specifically authorized in these Bylaws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
Facsimile Signatures
     Section 7.2 . The Board of Directors may provide a suitable seal, containing the name of the Corporation, which seal shall be in the charge of the Secretary. If and when so directed by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, duplicates of the seal may be kept and used by the Chief Financial Officer or by an Assistant Secretary or other officer designated by the Board of Directors.
Corporate Seal
     Section 7.3 . Each director, each member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, and each officer of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Corporation, including reports made to the Corporation by any of its officers, by an independent certified public accountant, or by an appraiser.
Reliance Upon Books, Reports and Records
     Section 7.4 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
     Section 7.5 . In applying any provision of these Bylaws which require that an act be done or not done a specified number of days prior to an event or that an act be done during a period of a specified number of days prior to an event, calendar days shall be used, the day of the doing of the act shall be excluded, and the day of the event shall be included.
Time Periods
     Section 7.6 . Except for (1) actions in which the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware concludes that an indispensable party is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Delaware courts, and (2) actions in which a Federal court has assumed exclusive jurisdiction of a proceeding, any derivative action brought by or on behalf of the corporation, and any direct action brought by a stockholder against the Corporation or any of its directors or officers, alleging a violation of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws or breach of fiduciary duties or other violation of Delaware decisional
Forum Selection
 
law relating to the internal affairs of the Corporation, shall be brought in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware, which shall be the sole and exclusive forum for such proceedings; provided, however, that the Corporation may consent to an alternative forum for any such proceedings upon the approval of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
     Section 8.1 . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, or appellate ("Proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or a person of whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer, employee or agent of another corporation, or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such Proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) against all expenses, liability and loss (including attorney's fees, judgment, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and amounts expended in seeking indemnification granted to such person under applicable law, this Bylaw or any agreement with the Corporation) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 8.2, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnity in connection with an action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law then so requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer of the Corporation in his capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of such proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it should be determined ultimately that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
Right to Indemnification
     Section 8.2 . If a claim under Section 8.1 is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty (60) days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty (20) days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
 
the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) in any suit by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth under the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its board of directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such a suit. In a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
     Section 8.3 . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article with respect to the indemnification of and advancement of expenses to directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
     Section 8.4 . The rights conferred on any person by Sections 8.1 and 8.2 shall not be exclusive of any other right which such persons may have or hereafter acquired under any statute, provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, by law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non Exclusivity of Rights
     Section 8.5 . The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any director or his affiliates, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or any person serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including employee benefit plans, providing for indemnification rights equivalent to those provided for in this Article VIII.
Indemnification Contracts
     Section 8.6 . The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any such director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expenses, liability or loss under Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance
     Section 8.7 . Unless otherwise determined by (i) the Board of Directors, (ii) if more than half of the directors are involved in a Proceeding by a majority vote of a committee of one or more distinguished director(s) or (iii) if directed by the Board of Directors, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, any indemnification
Advance Payment of Expenses
 
extended to an officer or key employee pursuant to this Article VIII shall include payment by the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation of expenses as the same are incurred in defending a Proceeding in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by such officer or key employee seeking indemnification to repay such payment if such officer or key employee shall be adjudicated or determined not to be entitled to indemnification under this Article VIII.
     Section 8.8 . Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article VIII by the stockholders or the directors of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director or officer of the Corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
Effect of Amendment
     Section 8.9 . If this Article or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director, officer, employee and agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
Savings Clause
     These Bylaws may be amended or repealed, and new Bylaws may be adopted, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, or by vote of at least a majority of the number of directors of the Corporation then authorized, in the manner prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
     I hereby certify:
     That I am the duly elected Secretary of Life Technologies Corporation, a Delaware corporation;
     That the foregoing Bylaws comprising nineteen (19) pages, constitute the amended and restated Bylaws of said corporation as duly adopted by the Corporation on May 22, 1997 and as amended July 31, 1998, November 20, 1998, January 15, 1999, July 19, 2001 and as amended and restated on July 22, 2004, October 29, 2008, February 27, 2009, July 22, 2009, April 29, 2010, October 15, 2010 and April 28, 2011.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunder subscribed my name this 28th day of April, 2011.


