FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20120731160201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On July 31, 2012, Life Technologies Corporation, or the Company, issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended June 30, 2012. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Certain of the information set forth in the press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported non-GAAP results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP results exclude merger related non-cash items and other costs. Additionally, the discussion surrounding sales performance related to these results excludes the impact of currency fluctuations period over period and acquisitions to measure core sales growth. This growth rate is referred to as organic growth.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our non-GAAP calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the non-GAAP presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the costs related to acquisitions. Also included in the non-GAAP results are certain business transformation cash expenses which management does not believe are indicative of profitability for ongoing business activities. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our non-GAAP results the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. Management uses non-GAAP earnings as a primary indicator in planning and forecasting for future periods, including trending the Company's core performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and uses these results to measure performance at a corporate level. The Company primarily uses non-GAAP earnings for evaluating management's performance for compensation purposes.
Item 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
See the information set forth under Item 2.02 above and attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1    Life Technologies Corporation press release dated July 31, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 31, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor and Financial Contact:
Carol Cox
Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today announced results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2012. Revenue for the second quarter was $950 million, an increase of 1 percent over the $945 million reported for the second quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of currency, revenue growth for the quarter was 1 percent compared to the same period of the prior year.
CARLSBAD, CA, July 31, 2012
"We finished the first half of 2012 in line with our expectations, as strength in our BioProduction and Ion Torrent businesses enabled us to grow revenue in the second quarter by 5 percent, excluding nearly $40 million in headwinds from expected declines in sales of our SOLiD 5500 product and qPCR royalties," said Gregory T. Lucier, chairman and chief executive officer of Life Technologies.
"During the quarter, we continued to deliver on our innovation pipeline, launching new Ion AmpliSeq clinical research products, selling a record number of our QuantStudio digital qPCR instruments and expanding our capabilities to commercialize novel stem cell technologies. In July, we made significant progress in building out our diagnostics franchise with the tuck-in acquisitions of Navigenics and Pinpoint Genomics, which in combination will allow us to offer a unique lung cancer clinical test to the pathology and oncology community."
"For the second half of 2012, we continue to expect solid growth in our Ion Torrent platform, as we begin shipping Ion Proton Sequencers in September, and in our emerging and applied markets. However, based primarily on increased headwinds from currency and an incrementally more conservative outlook for our European operations, we are revising our 2012 guidance. We are now expecting our organic revenue growth to be at the low end of our previously provided range of 2 to 4 percent and non-GAAP earnings per share in a range of $3.90 to $4.00."
Life Technologies reported current quarter results compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2011. Results are non-GAAP unless indicated otherwise. A full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in the tables of today's press release.
Analysis of Second Quarter 2012 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Group Highlights:
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors Authorized $750 million Share Repurchase
The company announced that its Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program, authorizing the company to purchase up to $750 million of its common stock. This is in addition to the approximately $62 million remaining as of July 31, 2012 from existing share repurchase authorizations.
"We remain committed to a balanced capital allocation program that includes returning a significant portion of our free cash flow annually to investors and using the remaining cash flow to support strategic opportunities in key franchises and expansion into new markets," said Gregory T. Lucier, chairman and chief executive officer of Life Technologies. "In 2012, we have already spent $335 million to repurchase shares and are committed to executing on this new authorization beginning in the second half of 2012."
Fiscal Year 2012 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company is updating its guidance to reflect increased headwinds from foreign exchange rates at June month end rates and an incrementally more conservative outlook to its operations in Europe. The company's updated 2012 guidance is for organic revenue growth at the low end of its previously provided range of 2 to 4 percent over 2011 revenues of $3.7 billion. Additionally, the company is lowering the top end of its range by $0.05 and is now expecting non-GAAP earnings per share in a range of $3.90 to $4.00. The revision to non-GAAP EPS range is based on weaker foreign exchange rates at June month end and the dilution from the recently announced acquisitions of Navigenics, Inc. and Pinpoint Genomics, Inc. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the webcast today.
Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its webcast at 4:30 PM ET today. This webcast will contain forward-looking information. The webcast will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the webcast will be posted at the company's investor relations website at . The webcast can be accessed through the investor relations page of the company's website at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the company's website through Tuesday, August 21, 2012.
https://ir.lifetechnologies.com
https://ir.lifetechnologies.com/events.cfm
About Life Technologies
Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) is a global biotechnology company with customers in more than 160 countries using its innovative solutions to solve some of today's most difficult scientific challenges. Quality and innovation are accessible to every lab with its reliable and easy-to-use solutions spanning the biological spectrum with more than 50,000 products for agricultural biotechnology, translational research, molecular medicine and diagnostics, stem cell-based therapies, forensics, food safety and animal health. Its systems, reagents and consumables represent some of the most cited brands in scientific research including: Ion Torrent, Applied Biosystems, Invitrogen, GIBCO, Ambion, Molecular Probes, Novex, and TaqMan. Life Technologies employs approximately 10,400 people and upholds its ongoing commitment to innovation with more than 4,000 patents and exclusive licenses. LIFE had sales of $3.7 billion in 2011. Visit us at our website: .
www.lifetechnologies.com
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and Life Technologies intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created thereby. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements about the expected future business and financial performance of the company. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to financial projections, including revenue and pro forma EPS projections; success of acquired businesses, including cost and revenue synergies; development and increased flow of new products; leveraging technology and personnel; advanced opportunities and efficiencies; opportunities for growth; expectations of prospective new standards, new delivery platforms, and new selling specialization and effectiveness; and corporate strategy and performance. A number of the matters discussed in this press release and presentation that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments, including future research and development plans. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: volatility of the financial markets; and the risks that are described from time to time in Life Technologies' reports filed with the SEC. This press release and presentation speaks only as of its date, and the company disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Non-GAAP Measurements
This press release includes certain financial information which constitutes "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by the SEC. The GAAP measures which are most directly comparable to these measures, as well as a reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures, can be found on the investor relations portion of the company's website at .
www.lifetechnologies.com
Investor and Financial Contact:
Carol Cox
Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
ir@lifetech.com
 
 
Summary of Reconciliation between GAAP and Non-GAAP Net Income
For the three months ended June 30, 2012, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $949.6 million, gross profit of $621.2 million with gross margin of 65.4%, operating profit of $271.3 million with operating margin of 28.6%, and an income tax provision of $66.1 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.6% with the above adjustments.
For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $944.8 million, gross profit of $606.8 million with gross margin of 64.2%, operating profit of $262.9 million with operating margin of 27.8%, and an income tax provision of $63.1 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.9% with the above adjustments.
Notes
 
 
 
The Company reports Non-GAAP results which excludes costs that are not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of the Company's ongoing or future operations. Such costs are restructuring cost, business transformation expenses, amortization and depreciation of deferred revenue, intangibles assets, and fixed assets, and revaluation charges for inventories, contingent consideration liabilities, asset impairments, and in process research and development expenses, incurred as a result of business combinations as well as the impact from the divestiture and discontinuance of product lines. The Company also excludes noncash interest expense associated with convertible debt bifurcation and noncash charges associated with non-controlling interests. In addition, the Company excludes one-time costs including the early repayment of debt and the associated impacts, and the impact of certain settlements in order to provide a supplemental comparison of the results of operations.
 
 
Summary of Reconciliation between GAAP and Non-GAAP Net Income
For the six months ended June 30, 2012, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $1.9 billion, gross profit of $1.2 billion with gross margin of 66.0%, operating profit of $554.5 million with operating margin of 29.4%, and an income tax provision of $137.9 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 28.0% with the above adjustments.
For the six months ended June 30, 2011, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $1.8 billion, gross profit of $1.2 billion with gross margin of 65.2%, operating profit of $515.6 million with operating margin of 28.0%, and an income tax provision of $123.2 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.7% with the above adjustments.
Notes
 
 
 
The Company reports Non-GAAP results which excludes costs that are not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of the Company's ongoing or future operations. Such costs are restructuring cost, business transformation expenses, amortization and depreciation of deferred revenue, intangibles assets, and fixed assets, and revaluation charges for inventories, contingent consideration liabilities, asset impairments, and in process research and development expenses, incurred as a result of business combinations as well as the impact from the divestiture and discontinuance of product lines. The Company also excludes noncash interest expense associated with convertible debt bifurcation and noncash charges associated with non-controlling interests. In addition, the Company excludes one-time costs including the early repayment of debt and the associated impacts, and the impact of certain settlements in order to provide a supplemental comparison of the results of operations.
 
 


