FILE:LIFE/LIFE-8K-20121102172535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
This amendment is being filed by Life Technologies Corporation (the "Company") to amend and revise the Company's earnings release, dated November 1, 2012 (the "Prior Earnings Release"), previously furnished as Item 9.01 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on November 1, 2012. As announced in the Prior Earnings Release, the Company received an unfavorable verdict in a litigation matter just prior to filing its financial results and holding its conference call on November 1, 2012 for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012. In the litigation matter, the jury ruled that the Company had infringed intellectual property held by Enzo Biochem relating to CE sequencing products during the period 1998-2004 and gave a verdict in the amount of $48.5 million in favor of Enzo Biochem. The Company strongly disagrees with the verdict and intends to vigorously challenge it in the trial court and on appeal. The relevant patent expired in 2004, so the verdict does not have any effect on the Company's CE business going forward. Although the Company is considering all its options in view of the judgment, including filing various post-trial motions and an appeal, the Company has recorded a charge of approximately $48.5 million related to the lawsuit in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. As a result, the Company's previously reported third quarter Life Technologies GAAP net income will decrease from $97.4 million to $65.9 million, or from $0.55 to $0.37 per diluted share. The Company has provided revised financial statements and a reconciliation of the Consolidated Statements of Operations provided in the Prior Earnings Release to the revised Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company's amended and revised earnings release, dated November 2, 2012, is being furnished as Item 9.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
Item 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On November 2, 2012, Life Technologies Corporation, or the Company, issued an amended and revised earnings release regarding the Company's financial results for the period ended September 30, 2012. The full text of the Company's amended and revised earnings release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Certain of the information set forth in the amended and revised press release may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. We regularly have reported non-GAAP results for net income and earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP results exclude merger related non-cash items and other costs. Additionally, the discussion surrounding sales performance related to these results excludes the impact of currency fluctuations period over period and acquisitions to measure core sales growth. This growth rate is referred to as organic growth.
Our financial results under GAAP include substantial non-cash charges and tax benefits related to acquired businesses. Our non-GAAP calculations of net income and earnings per share are limited because they do not reflect the entirety of our business costs. However, management believes that the non-GAAP presentation is a useful supplemental disclosure to investors as it provides an indication of the profitability and cash flows of the combined businesses apart from the costs related to acquisitions. Also included in the non-GAAP results are certain business transformation cash expenses which management does not believe are indicative of profitability for ongoing business activities. Management believes that this information is therefore useful to investors in analyzing and assessing our past and future operating performance.
In addition to the non-cash charges above, we exclude from our non-GAAP results the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Management views these costs as not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of its ongoing or future operations and excludes these costs as a supplemental disclosure to assist investors in evaluating and assessing our past and future operational performance. Management uses non-GAAP earnings as a primary indicator in planning and forecasting for future periods, including trending the Company's core performance period over period. Management uses these non-GAAP earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and uses these results to measure performance at a corporate level. The Company primarily uses non-GAAP earnings for evaluating management's performance for compensation purposes.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, this information, including the financial results information included in Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information and the financial information contained in such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
See the information set forth under Item 2.02 above and attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 2, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
:
Investor and Financial Contact
Carol Cox
Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today issued a revision to the Company's earnings release dated November 1, 2012 for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012. On November 1, 2012 the Company received an unfavorable verdict in its litigation with Enzo Biochem. The Company does not expect this verdict to have a material impact on its business going forward as this intellectual property was held by Enzo Biochem during the period 1998-2004 and the patent expired in 2004. Although the Company strongly disagrees with the verdict and intends to vigorously challenge it in the trial court and on appeal, the Company has recorded a charge of $48.5 million related to the lawsuit in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. As a result, the Company's previously reported third quarter 2012 GAAP diluted earnings per share will decrease $0.18 per share from $0.55 per share to $0.37 per share. The verdict did not impact the non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. The Company has provided revised financial statements and reconciliations between GAAP and Non-GAAP Net Income.
CARLSBAD, CA, November 2, 2012
The full updated press release follows:
Life Technologies Announces Third Quarter 2012 Results
 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) today announced results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012. Revenue for the third quarter was $911 million, a decrease of 1.9 percent over the $929 million reported for the third quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of currency, revenue growth for the quarter was 1.4 percent compared to the same period of the prior year.
CARLSBAD, CA, November 1, 2012
"Our third quarter performance came in stronger than our expectations driven by a significant increase in Ion Torrent platform sales, as well as increased sales in our research consumables and forensics businesses," said Gregory T. Lucier, chairman and chief executive officer of Life Technologies. "During the quarter, we made solid progress in expanding our operations and footprint in high growth and emerging markets, including entering into strategic partnerships for companion diagnostics, building the foundation for our Medical Sciences business and acquiring distributors in China and Chile. We achieved important milestones with several highly anticipated launches including the Ion Proton System, a platform whose speed, ease of use and affordability will democratize genome sequencing, and our Pervenio Lung RS test service, the first of its kind molecular test to identify early-stage lung cancer patients who are at high risk of reoccurrence following surgery."
"We continue to demonstrate our commitment to returning capital to shareholders by repurchasing an additional $208 million worth of shares in the third quarter, bringing our year-to-date total to $535 million. Based on our performance year-to-date and end market assumptions, we are tightening the full year guidance range by increasing the bottom end by $0.05 and are now expecting non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.95 to $4.00."
Life Technologies reported current quarter results compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2011. Results are non-GAAP unless indicated otherwise. A full reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in the tables of today's press release.
Analysis of Third Quarter 2012 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Group Highlights
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2012 Outlook
Subject to the risk factors detailed in the Safe Harbor Statement section of this release, the company is updating its guidance. The company's updated 2012 guidance is for organic revenue growth of approximately 2 percent over 2011 revenues of $3.7 billion. Additionally, the company is tightening the previously provided range by increasing the bottom by $0.05 and is now expecting non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.95 to $4.00. The company will provide further detail on its business outlook during the webcast today.
The Ion Proton System is for Research Use Only and not intended for use in diagnostic procedures.
Webcast Details
The company will discuss its financial and business results as well as its business outlook on its webcast at 4:30 PM ET today. This webcast will contain forward-looking information. The webcast will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. For actual results, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, as well as other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the webcast will be posted at the company's investor relations website at . The webcast can be accessed through the investor relations page of the company's website at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the company's website through Thursday, November 22, 2012.
https://ir.lifetechnologies.com
https://ir.lifetechnologies.com/events.cfm
About Life Technologies
(NASDAQ: LIFE) is a global biotechnology company with customers in more than 160 countries using its innovative solutions to solve some of today's most difficult scientific challenges. Quality and innovation are accessible to every lab with its reliable and easy-to-use solutions spanning the biological spectrum with more than 50,000 products for agricultural biotechnology, translational research, molecular medicine and diagnostics, stem cell-based therapies, forensics, food safety and animal health. Its systems, reagents and consumables represent some of the most cited brands in scientific research including: Ion Torrent, Applied Biosystems, Invitrogen, GIBCO, Ambion, Molecular Probes, Novex, and TaqMan. Life Technologies employs approximately 10,400 people and upholds its ongoing commitment to innovation with more than 4,000 patents and exclusive licenses. LIFE had sales of $3.7 billion in 2011. Visit us at our website: .
Life Technologies Corporation
http://www.lifetechnologies.com
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and Life Technologies intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created thereby. Forward-looking statements may be identified by
words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements about the expected future business and financial performance of the company. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to financial projections, including revenue and pro forma EPS projections; success of acquired businesses, including cost and revenue synergies; development and increased flow of new products; leveraging technology and personnel; advanced opportunities and efficiencies; opportunities for growth; expectations of prospective new standards, new delivery platforms, and new selling specialization and effectiveness; and corporate strategy and performance. A number of the matters discussed in this press release and presentation that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances and developments, including future research and development plans. The discussion of such matters is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: volatility of the financial markets; and the risks that are described from time to time in Life Technologies' reports filed with the SEC. This press release and presentation speaks only as of its date, and the company disclaims any duty to update the information herein.
Non-GAAP Measurements
This press release includes certain financial information which constitutes "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by the SEC. The GAAP measures which are most directly comparable to these measures, as well as a reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures, can be found on the investor relations portion of the company's website at .
www.lifetechnologies.com
Investor and Financial Contact
Carol Cox
Investor Relations
(760) 603-7208
ir@lifetech.com
 
 
Summary of Reconciliation between GAAP and Non-GAAP Net Income
For the three months ended September 30, 2012, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $911.4 million, gross profit of $598.3 million with gross margin of 65.6%, operating profit of $255.3 million with operating margin of 28.0%, and an income tax provision of $61.0 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.3% with the above adjustments.
For the three months ended September 30, 2011, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $928.7 million, gross profit of $613.5 million with gross margin of 66.1%, operating profit of $273.2 million with operating margin of 29.4%, and an income tax provision of $64.9 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.1% with the above adjustments.
Notes
 
 
 
The Company reports Non-GAAP results which excludes costs that are not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of the Company's ongoing or future operations. Such costs are restructuring cost, business transformation expenses, amortization and depreciation of deferred revenue, intangibles assets, and fixed assets, and revaluation charges for inventories, contingent consideration liabilities, asset impairments, and in process research and development expenses, incurred as a result of business combinations as well as the impact from the divestiture and discontinuance of product lines. The Company also excludes noncash interest expense associated with convertible debt bifurcation and noncash charges associated with non-controlling interests. In addition, the Company excludes one-time costs including the early repayment of debt and the associated impacts, and the impact of certain settlements in order to provide a supplemental comparison of the results of operations.
 
 
Summary of Reconciliation between GAAP and Non-GAAP Net Income
For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $2.8 billion, gross profit of $1.8 billion with gross margin of 65.9%, operating profit of $809.8 million with operating margin of 28.9%, and an income tax provision of $199.0 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.8% with the above adjustments.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, Non-GAAP earnings resulted in total revenue of $2.8 billion, gross profit of $1.8 billion with gross margin of 65.5%, operating profit of $788.8 million with operating margin of 28.5%, and an income tax provision of $188.1 million with the Non-GAAP effective tax rate of 27.5% with the above adjustments.
Notes
 
 
 
The Company reports Non-GAAP results which excludes costs that are not indicative of the profitability or cash flows of the Company's ongoing or future operations. Such costs are restructuring cost, business transformation expenses, amortization and depreciation of deferred revenue, intangibles assets, and fixed assets, and revaluation charges for inventories, contingent consideration liabilities, asset impairments, and in process research and development expenses, incurred as a result of business combinations as well as the impact from the divestiture and discontinuance of product lines. The Company also excludes noncash interest expense associated with convertible debt bifurcation and noncash charges associated with non-controlling interests. In addition, the Company excludes one-time costs including the early repayment of debt and the associated impacts, and the impact of certain settlements in order to provide a supplemental comparison of the results of operations.
 
 


