FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20020820143548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, include area code:
      651-293-2233
 
 
Item 5.    .
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 20, 2002, Ecolab Inc. ("Ecolab") announced that, effective immediately, Mr. Douglas M. Baker, Jr. has been promoted to the office of President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Allan L. Schuman will continue in his position as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
 
A copy of the News Release issued by Ecolab in connection with this Item 5 is attached as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 7.    .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
(99)  Ecolab Inc. News Release dated August 20, 2002.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  August 20, 2002
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
News Release
 
Ecolab Inc.
370 Wabasha Street North
St. Paul, Minnesota  55102
 
 
                ST. PAUL, Minn., August 20, 2002:  Ecolab Inc. announced that, effective immediately, Douglas M. Baker, Jr. has been promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer.  In this position, all business units will report to him.  Baker previously served as President  Institutional Sector, and was responsible for the Institutional, Kay and Textile Care businesses.  He has held previous leadership positions with Ecolab's Institutional, Kay and European operations.
 
                Allan L. Schuman, Ecolab's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Doug has shown strong leadership in his 13 years at Ecolab, most recently in successfully leading the Institutional Sector through the past year's challenging economic environment.  We believe he is well prepared to step into this larger role, and in working with John Spooner, President  International Sector,  and the other managers at Ecolab, will enable us to develop and leverage the tremendous opportunities that lie ahead for our company.  I am personally pleased by this action, and will work with Doug over the foreseeable future in developing our management team."
 
                With worldwide sales exceeding $3 billion, Ecolab is the leading global developer and marketer of premium cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination, maintenance and repair products and services for the hospitality, institutional and industrial markets.  Ecolab shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange under the symbol ECL.
 
                Ecolab news releases and other investor information are available on the Internet at www.ecolab.com and by telephone at 1-800-FACT-ECL.


