FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20041206115744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(Date of earliest event reported):        
Date of Report 
December 6, 2004
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 3.03  .
Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
 
Effective December 6, 2004, Ecolab Inc. appointed Computershare Investor Services, LLC ("Computershare") its Stock Transfer Agent, Registrar, Dividend Paying Agent and Rights Agent, replacing EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. ("EquiServe").  In that connection, Ecolab, EquiServe, and Computershare entered into an Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated and effective as of December 6, 2004 (the "Amendment"), to replace EquiServe with Computershare as Rights Agent.
 
A copy of the Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit (4)A and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01  .
Other Events
 
In connection with the above described transfer agent switch, the Board of Directors of Ecolab Inc. adopted a new Common Stock certificate.  The form of Common Stock certificate, as approved by the New York Stock Exchange, is attached hereto as Exhibit 4(B).
 
Item 9.01  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4A
 
 
This Amendment (the "Amendment"), dated and effective as of December 6, 2004 and executed among Ecolab Inc., (the "Company"), Equiserve Trust Company, N.A. ("Equiserve") and Computershare Investor Services, LLC ("Computershare"), hereby amends the Rights Agreement originally between the Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New York dated as of February 24, 1996 (the "Rights Agreement").
 
 
, the Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New York previously entered into the Rights Agreement, pursuant to which First Chicago was appointed to serve as the Rights Agent; and
WHEREAS
 
, Equiserve was appointed as successor Rights Agent pursuant to the amendment effective on November 5, 2001; and
WHEREAS
 
, Equiserve desires to resign as Rights Agent and the Company desires to accept such resignation and appoint Computershare as successor Rights Agent under the Rights Agreement, and
WHEREAS
 
, in connection with the resignation of Equiserve as Rights Agent and the appointment of Computershare as successor Rights Agent, the Company, Equiserve and Computershare desire to amend the Rights Agreement in certain respects.
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the promises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
Section 1. .  Equiserve hereby resigns as Rights Agent under the Rights Agreement and the Company hereby accepts Equiserve's resignation.
 
Resignation of Rights Agent
 
Section 2.  .  The Company hereby appoints Computershare as successor Rights Agent under the Rights Agreement and Computershare hereby accepts such appointment.
Appointment of the Successor Rights Agent
 
Section 3.  .  The Rights Agreement shall be further amended as follows:
Amendment of Rights Agreement
 
"Computershare Investor Services, LLC" shall be substituted throughout the Rights Agreement, Exhibits and other attachments for "Equiserve Trust Company, N.A." including substituting all abbreviations therefore.
(a)
                                 
 
Section 21 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
(b)
                                
Section 21.  .  The Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under this Agreement upon thirty (30) days' notice in writing mailed to the Company, and to each transfer agent of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock, by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class mail. The Company may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent upon thirty (30) days' notice in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each transfer agent of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock, by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class mail. If the Rights Agent shall resign or be removed or shall otherwise become incapable of acting, the Company shall appoint a successor to the Rights Agent. If the Company shall fail to make such appointment within a period of thirty (30) days after giving notice of such removal or after it has been notified in writing of such resignation or incapacity by the resigning or incapacitated Rights Agent or by the holder of a Rights Certificate (who shall, with such notice, submit his Rights Certificate for inspection by the Company), then any registered holder of any Rights Certificate may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a new Rights Agent. Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed by the Company or by such a court, shall be a corporation, trust company, or limited liability company organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or of any state of the United States, in good standing, which is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust or stock transfer powers and is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority.
Change of Rights Agent
 
After appointment, the successor Rights Agent shall be vested with the same powers, rights, duties and responsibilities as if it had been originally named as Rights Agent without further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights Agent shall deliver and transfer to the successor Rights Agent any property at the time held by it hereunder, and execute and deliver any further assurance, conveyance, act or deed necessary for the purpose. Not later than the effective date of any such appointment, the Company shall file notice thereof in writing with the predecessor Rights Agent and each transfer agent of the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock, and mail a notice thereof in writing to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates. Failure to give any notice provided for in this Section 21, however, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent or the appointment of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may be.
 
Section 26 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the address for notice or demand to be given to the Rights Agent by the Company and substituting in lieu therefor the following:
(c)
                                 
Computershare Investor Services, LLC
2 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Attention:  Relationship Manager
 
with a copy to:
 
Computershare Investor Services, LLC
2 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Attention:  Director of Relationship Management
 
Section 5.  . The parties hereto hereby acknowledge and agree that, except as specifically supplemented and amended, changed or modified hereby, the Rights Agreement, as previously amended to the date hereof, shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
Continued Effectiveness
 
Section 6.  .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
 
Section 7.  .  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, or unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Rights Agreement.
Terms
 
[Signature Page Follows]
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and effective as of the day and year above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4B
 
 
The Corporation will furnish, without charge, to each stockholder who so requests, a printed statement of the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof which the corporation is authorized to issue and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. requests may be directed to the secretary of ecolab inc. at its principal office, or the transfer agent named on the face of this certificate.
 
This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain Rights as set forth in the Rights Agreement between Ecolab Inc. (the "Company") and First Chicago Trust Company of New York (the "Rights Agent") dated as of February 24, 1996, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Rights Agreement"), the terms of which ARE hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file aT the principal offices of the Company. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate. The Company will mail to the holder of this certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of mailing, without charge promptly after receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, Rights issued to, or held by, any Person who is, was or becomes an Acquiring Person or an Adverse Person or any Affiliate or Associate thereof (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), whether currently held by or on behalf of such Person or by any subsequent holder, may become null and void.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
 
For value received,                                    hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE                                                 
 
(PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE)
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Shares of the capital stock represented by the within Certificate, and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the within-named Corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULD BE GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION (Banks, Stockbrokers, Savings and Loan Associations and Credit Unions) WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED SIGNATURE GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM, PURSUANT TO S.E.C. RULE 17Ad-15.
SECURITY INSTRUCTIONS
 
THIS IS WATERMARKED PAPER, DO NOT ACCEPT WITHOUT NOTING WATERMARK. HOLD TO LIGHT TO VERIFY WATERMARK.


