FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20050228101742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02 .
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Officers
 
(b) Resignation of a Director
 
William L. Jews, a director of Ecolab Inc. (the "Company"), has resigned, effective February 28, 2005, as a director of the Company, in order to focus more time and attention on his duties as President and Chief Executive Officer of CareFirst, Inc.
 
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing the resignation of Mr. Jews is filed as Exhibit (99) to this Form 8-K.
 
 
Item 9.01 .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits.
(c)
          
 
(99)            Ecolab Inc. New Release dated February 28, 2005.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
William Jews Retires from Ecolab Board
 
ST. PAUL, Minn., February 28, 2005:  Ecolab Inc. announced that William L. Jews, President and Chief Executive Officer of CareFirst, Inc., has retired as a director of Ecolab.
 
In submitting his resignation, Jews said "It is with very mixed emotions that I make this decision. While I have thoroughly enjoyed my tenure on Ecolab's board and have great respect for my fellow board members and Ecolab's management group, the increasing demands in today's operating environment requires me to focus more of my time and attention on CareFirst.   I leave the Ecolab board confident in the company's tradition of strong and effective governance, as well its history of strong growth, and expect them to continue."
 
Commenting on Jews retirement, Allan L. Schuman, Chairman of Ecolab's board said: "Bill has been a valued and highly effective director, providing strong counsel and leadership as chair of the Finance committee and member of the Audit committee.  We regret his decision to retire from our board, but understand his first duty is to his company and board.  We will miss his friendship and thank him for his outstanding service to our company.  We wish him well."
 
As a result of Mr. Jews' decision to retire, the Board determined that the Board size would be decreased from 14 to 13 directors.
 
With 2004 sales of $4.2 billion, Ecolab is the leading global developer and marketer of premium cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination, maintenance and repair products for the hospitality, foodservice, institutional and industrial markets.  Ecolab shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange under the symbol ECL.
 
Ecolab news releases and other investor information are available on the Internet at www.ecolab.com.
 
###


