FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20050506164233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(Date of earliest event reported)  
Date of Report
May 6, 2005
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
651-293-2233
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01 Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On May 6, 2005, our stockholders voted to approve the Ecolab Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan").  (See also Item 8.01 below.)  The 2005 Plan provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, stock unit awards and performance awards to employees, consultants, advisors and independent contractors of the Company and its subsidiaries.  A maximum of 12 million shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance under the 2005 Plan, subject to adjustment for certain changes in our corporate structure or shares.  Unless terminated earlier, the 2005 Plan will terminate on May 6, 2015.  This summary of the 2005 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2005 Plan, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit (10)A and incorporated by reference herein.  A more detailed summary can also be found in our proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2005.  Also attached as Exhibit (10)B is a sample form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement under the 2005 Plan.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
Our Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on May 6, 2005.  At the meeting, 86.15% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock were represented in person or by proxy.  The first proposal voted upon was the election of five Class I Directors for a term ending at the annual meeting in 2008. The five persons nominated by our Board of Directors received the following votes and were elected:
 
 
In addition, the terms of office of the following directors continued after the meeting:  Class II Directors for a term ending in 2006  Les S. Biller, Jerry A. Grundhofer, Jochen Krautter, and Allan L. Schuman.  Class III Directors for a term ending in 2007  Richard U. De Schutter, Joel W. Johnson, Ulrich Lehner, and Beth M. Pritchard.
 
The second proposal voted upon was to approve the Ecolab Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.  The proposal received the following votes and was approved:
 
 
The third proposal voted upon was to consider a stockholder proposal to adopt the "Director Election Majority Vote Standard."  The proposal received the following votes and was defeated:
 
 
The fourth proposal voted upon was the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2005.
 
The proposal received the following votes and was ratified:
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10(A)
 
.
1.
                                      
Purpose of Plan
 
The purpose of the Ecolab Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interests of Ecolab Inc. (the "Company") and its stockholders by enabling the Company and its Subsidiaries to attract and retain qualified individuals through opportunities for equity participation in the Company, and to reward those individuals who contribute to the achievement of the Company' economic objectives.
 
2.
                                      
Definitions.
 
The following terms will have the meanings set forth below, unless the context clearly otherwise requires:
 
2.1
                                
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
2.2
                                
"" means a written notice pursuant to which a Participant, upon exercise of an Option, irrevocably instructs a broker or dealer to sell a sufficient number of shares or loan a sufficient amount of money to pay all or a portion of the exercise price of the Option and/or any related withholding tax obligations and remit such sums to the Company and directs the Company to deliver stock certificates to be issued upon such exercise directly to such broker or dealer or their nominee.
Broker Exercise Notice
 
2.3
                                
"" means (i) dishonesty, fraud, misrepresentation, embezzlement or deliberate injury or attempted injury, in each case related to the Company or any Subsidiary, (ii) any unlawful or criminal activity of a serious nature, (iii) any intentional and deliberate breach of a duty or duties that, individually or in the aggregate, are material in relation to the Participant's overall duties, or (iv) any material breach of any confidentiality or noncompete agreement entered into with the Company or any Subsidiary.
Cause
 
2.4
                                
"" means an event described in Section 13.1 of the Plan; provided, however, if distribution of an Incentive Award subject to Section 409A of the Code is triggered by a Change in Control, the term Change in Control will mean a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, as such term is defined in Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and rulings issued thereunder.
Change in Control
 
2.5
                                
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
2.6
                                
"" means the group of individuals administering the Plan, as provided in Section 3 of the Plan.
Committee
 
2.7
                                
"" means the common stock of the Company, par value $1.00 per share, or the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities into which such Common Stock may be changed in accordance with Section 4.3 of the Plan.
Common Stock
 
2.8
                                
"" means the disability of the Participant such as would entitle the Participant to receive disability income benefits pursuant to the long-term disability plan of the Company or Subsidiary then covering the Participant or, if no such plan exists or is applicable to the Participant, the permanent and total disability of the Participant within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code; provided, however, if distribution of an Incentive Award subject to Section 409A of the Code is triggered by an Eligible Recipient's Disability, such term will mean that the Eligible Recipient is disabled as defined by Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and rulings issued thereunder.
Disability
 
2.9
                                
"" means all employees (including, without limitation, officers and directors who are also employees) of the Company or any Subsidiary and any consultants, advisors and independent contractors of the Company or any Subsidiary.
Eligible Recipients
 
2.10
                          
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
2.11
                          
""  means, with respect to the Common Stock, as of any date (or, if no shares were traded or quoted on such date, as of the next preceding date on which there was such a trade or quote) the mean between the reported high and low sale prices of the Common Stock during the regular daily trading session, as quoted in the WALL STREET JOURNAL reports of the New York Stock Exchange - Composite Transactions.
Fair Market Value
 
2.12
                          
"" means an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Stock Unit Award or Performance Award granted to an Eligible Recipient pursuant to the Plan.
Incentive Award
 
2.13
                          
"" means a right to purchase Common Stock granted to an Eligible Recipient pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan that qualifies as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
 
2.14
                          
"" means a right to purchase Common Stock granted to an Eligible Recipient pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan that does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Non-Statutory Stock Option
 
2.15
                          
"" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Statutory Stock Option.
Option
 
2.16
                          
"" means an Eligible Recipient who receives one or more Incentive Awards under the Plan.
Participant
 
2.17
                          
"" means the performance criteria that may be used by the Committee in granting Incentive Awards contingent upon achievement of performance goals, consisting of net sales, operating income, income before income taxes, net income, net income per share (basic or diluted), profitability as measured by return ratios (including return on assets,
Performance Criteria
 
 
return on equity, return on investment and return on sales), cash flows, market share, cost reduction goals, margins (including one or more of gross, operating and net income margins), stock price, total return to stockholders, economic value added, working capital and strategic plan development and implementation.  The Committee may select one criterion or multiple criteria for measuring performance, and the measurement may be based upon Company, Subsidiary or business unit performance, either absolute or by relative comparison to other companies or any other external measure of the selected criteria.
 
2.18
                          
"" means a right granted to an Eligible Recipient pursuant to Section 10 of the Plan to receive an amount of cash, shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both, contingent upon achievement of Performance Criteria or other objectives during a specified period.
Performance Award
 
2.19
                          
"" means shares of Common Stock that are already owned by the Participant.
Previously Acquired Shares
 
2.20
                          
"" means an award of Common Stock granted to an Eligible Recipient pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan that is subject to restrictions on transferability and a risk of forfeiture.
Restricted Stock Award
 
2.21
                          
""
Retirement
means termination of employment or service at an age and length of service such that the Participant would be eligible to an immediate commencement of benefit payments under the final average compensation formula of the Company's defined benefit pension plan available generally to its employees, whether or not such individual actually elects to commence such payments (provided that, (i) if the Participant is not covered by the Company's defined benefit pension plan, or (ii) if the Participant is covered under the cash balance formula of such plan, then the Participant will be deemed to be covered by the final average compensation formula of such plan for purposes of this Plan).
 
2.22
                          
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
2.23
                          
"" means a right granted to an Eligible Recipient pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan to receive a payment from the Company, in the form of shares of Common Stock, cash or a combination of both, equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of one or more shares of Common Stock and a specified exercise price of such shares.
Stock Appreciation Right
 
2.24
                          
"" means a right granted to an Eligible Recipient pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan to receive the Fair Market Value of one or more shares of Common Stock, payable in cash, shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both, the payment, issuance, retention and /or vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions, which may include achievement of Performance Criteria or other objectives.
Stock Unit Award
 
 
2.25
                          
"" means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee.
Subsidiary
 
2.26
                          
"" means the date any withholding tax obligation arises under the Code for a Participant with respect to an Incentive Award.
Tax Date
 
3.
                                      
Plan Administration.
 
3.1
                                
The Committee
.  The Plan will be administered by the Board or by a committee of the Board.  So long as the Company has a class of its equity securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, any committee administering the Plan will consist solely of two or more members of the Board who are "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, who are "independent" as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and who are "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.  Such a committee, if established, will act by majority approval of the members (unanimous approval with respect to action by written consent), and a majority of the members of such a committee will constitute a quorum.   As used in the Plan, "Committee" will refer to the Board or to such a committee, if established.  To the extent consistent with applicable corporate law of the Company's jurisdiction of incorporation, the Committee may delegate to any officers of the Company the duties, power and authority of the Committee under the Plan pursuant to such conditions or limitations as the Committee may establish; provided, however, that only the Committee may exercise such duties, power and authority with respect to Eligible Recipients who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or whose compensation in the fiscal year may be subject to the limits on deductible compensation pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code.  The Committee may exercise its duties, power and authority under the Plan in its sole and absolute discretion without the consent of any Participant or other party, unless the Plan specifically provides otherwise.  Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan will be conclusive and binding for all purposes and on all persons, and no member of the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Incentive Award granted under the Plan.
 
3.2
                                
Authority of the Committee
.
 
(a)
                                 
In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority to determine all provisions of Incentive Awards as the Committee may deem necessary or desirable and as consistent with the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, the following:  (i) the Eligible Recipients to be selected as Participants; (ii) the nature and extent of the Incentive Awards to be made to each Participant (including the number of shares of Common Stock to be subject to each Incentive Award, any exercise price, the manner in which Incentive Awards will vest or become exercisable and whether Incentive Awards will be granted in tandem with other Incentive Awards) and the form of written agreement, if any, evidencing such Incentive Award; (iii) the time or times when Incentive Awards will be granted; (iv) the duration of
 
 
each Incentive Award; and (v) the restrictions and other conditions to which the payment or vesting of Incentive Awards may be subject.  In addition, the Committee will have the authority under the Plan in its sole discretion to pay the economic value of any Incentive Award in the form of cash, Common Stock or any combination of both.
 
(b)
                                
Subject to Section 3.2(d), below, the Committee will have the authority under the Plan to amend or modify the terms of any outstanding Incentive Award in any manner, including, without limitation, the authority to modify the number of shares or other terms and conditions of an Incentive Award, extend the term of an Incentive Award, accelerate the exercisability or vesting or otherwise terminate any restrictions relating to an Incentive Award, accept the surrender of any outstanding Incentive Award or, to the extent not previously exercised or vested, authorize the grant of new Incentive Awards in substitution for surrendered Incentive Awards; provided, however that the amended or modified terms are permitted by the Plan as then in effect and that any Participant adversely affected by such amended or modified terms has consented to such amendment or modification.
 
(c)
                                 
In the event of (i) any reorganization, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, liquidation, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, rights offering, extraordinary dividend or divestiture (including a spin-off) or any other change in corporate structure or shares; (ii) any purchase, acquisition, sale, disposition or write-down of a significant amount of assets or a significant business; (iii) any change in accounting principles or practices, tax laws or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; (iv) any uninsured catastrophic losses or extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 or in management's discussion and analysis of financial performance appearing in the Company's annual report to stockholders for the applicable year; or (v) any other similar change, in each case with respect to the Company or any other entity whose performance is relevant to the grant or vesting of an Incentive Award, the Committee (or, if the Company is not the surviving corporation in any such transaction, the board of directors of the surviving corporation) may, without the consent of any affected Participant, amend or modify the vesting criteria (including Performance Criteria) of any outstanding Incentive Award that is based in whole or in part on the financial performance of the Company (or any Subsidiary or division or other subunit thereof) or such other entity so as equitably to reflect such event, with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating such financial performance of the Company or such other entity will be substantially the same (in the sole discretion of the Committee or the board of directors of the surviving corporation) following such event as prior to such event; provided, however, that the amended or modified terms are permitted by the Plan as then in effect.
 
(d)
                                
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan other than Section 4.3, the Committee may not, without prior approval of the Company's stockholders, seek to effect any re-pricing of any previously granted, "underwater" Option by:  (i) amending or modifying the terms of the Option to lower the exercise price; (ii) canceling the
 
 
underwater Option and granting either (A) replacement Options or Stock Appreciation Rights having a lower exercise price; (B) Restricted Stock Awards; or (C) Stock Unit Awards or Performance Awards in exchange; or (iii) repurchasing the underwater Options and granting new Incentive Awards under this Plan.  For purposes of this Section 3.2(d), an Option will be deemed to be "underwater" at any time when the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock is less than the exercise price of the Option.
 
(e)
                                 
In addition to the authority of the Committee under Section 3.2(b) and notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend the terms of the Plan or Incentive Awards with respect to Participants resident outside of the United States or employed by a non-U.S. Subsidiary in order to comply with local legal requirements, to otherwise protect the Company's or Subsidiary's interests, or to meet objectives of the Plan, and may, where appropriate, establish one or more sub-plans (including the adoption of any required rules and regulations) for the purposes of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under foreign tax laws.  The Committee shall have no authority, however, to take action pursuant to this Section 3.2(e): (i) to reserve shares or grant Incentive Awards in excess of the limitations provided in Section 4.1; (ii) to effect any re-pricing in violation of Section 3.2(d); (iii) to grant Options having an exercise price less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of grant in violation of Section 6.2; or (iv) for which stockholder approval would then be required pursuant to Section 422 of the Code or Section 162(m) of the Code or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
 
(f)
                                   
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Committee will determine whether an Incentive Award is subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and, if determined to be subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Committee will make such Incentive Award subject to such written terms and conditions determined necessary or desirable to cause such Incentive Award to comply in form with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  Further, the Plan, as it relates to Incentive Awards that are subject to Section 409A of the Code, will be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and any regulations or rulings issued thereunder.
 
4.
                                      
Shares Available for Issuance.
 
4.1
                                
Maximum Number of Shares Available; Certain Restrictions on Awards
.  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3 of the Plan, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that will be available for issuance under the Plan will be 12,000,000.
 
The shares available for issuance under the Plan may, at the election of the Committee, be either treasury shares or shares authorized but unissued, and, if treasury shares are used, all references in the Plan to the issuance of shares will, for corporate law purposes, be deemed to mean the transfer of shares from treasury.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, (i) no Participant in the Plan may be granted Incentive Awards denominated in shares of Common Stock relating to more than 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock in the aggregate during any calendar year; (ii) no Participant in the Plan may be granted Incentive Awards denominated in
 
cash in an amount in excess of $3,000,000 in the aggregate during any calendar year; and (iii) no more than 12,000,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan, with the foregoing share limits subject, in each case, to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3 of the Plan.
 
4.2
                                
Accounting for Incentive Awards
.  Shares of Common Stock that are issued under the Plan or that are potentially issuable pursuant to outstanding Incentive Awards will be applied to reduce the maximum number of shares of Common Stock remaining available for issuance under the Plan; provided, however, that the total number of shares that may be issued under the Plan shall be reduced by one additional share for each share issued pursuant to an Incentive Award other than an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right, or potentially issuable pursuant to an outstanding Incentive Award other than an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right.  All shares so subtracted from the amount available under the Plan with respect to an Incentive Award that lapses, expires, is forfeited (including issued shares forfeited under a Restricted Stock Award) or for any reason is terminated unexercised or unvested or is settled or paid in cash or any form other than shares of Common Stock will automatically again become available for issuance under the Plan; provided, however, that (i) any shares which would have been issued upon any exercise of an Option but for the fact that the exercise price was paid by a "net exercise" pursuant to Section 6.4(b) or the tender or attestation as to ownership of Previously Acquired Shares will not again become available for issuance under the Plan; and (ii) shares covered by a Stock Appreciation Right, to the extent exercised, will not again become available for issuance under the Plan.
 
4.3
                                
Adjustments to Shares and Incentive Awards
.  In the event of any reorganization, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, liquidation, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, rights offering, divestiture or extraordinary dividend (including a spin-off) or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of the Company, the Committee (or, if the Company is not the surviving corporation in any such transaction, the board of directors of the surviving corporation) will make appropriate adjustment (which determination will be conclusive) as to the number and kind of securities or other property (including cash) available for issuance or payment under the Plan and, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants, (a) the number and kind of securities or other property (including cash) subject to outstanding Incentive Awards, and (b) the exercise price of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
.
5.
                                      
Participation
 
Participants in the Plan will be those Eligible Recipients who, in the judgment of the Committee, have contributed, are contributing or are expected to contribute to the achievement of economic objectives of the Company or its Subsidiaries.  Eligible Recipients may be granted from time to time one or more Incentive Awards, singly or in combination or in tandem with other Incentive Awards, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  Incentive Awards will be deemed to be granted as of the date specified in the grant resolution of the Committee, which date will be the date of any related agreement with the Participant.
.
6.
                                      
Options
 
6.1
                                
Grant
.  An Eligible Recipient may be granted one or more Options under the Plan, and such Options will be subject to such terms and conditions, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee may designate whether an Option is to be considered an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Statutory Stock Option.  To the extent that any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan ceases for any reason to qualify as an "incentive stock option" for purposes of Section 422 of the Code, such Incentive Stock Option will continue to be outstanding for purposes of the Plan but will thereafter be deemed to be a Non-Statutory Stock Option.
 
6.2
                                
Exercise Price
.  The per share price to be paid by a Participant upon exercise of an Option will be determined by the Committee in its discretion at the time of the Option grant, provided that such price will not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of grant.
 
6.3
                                
Exercisability and Duration
.  An Option will become exercisable at such times and in such installments and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion at the time of grant (including without limitation (i) the achievement of one or more of the Performance Criteria; and/or that (ii) the Participant remain in the continuous employ or service of the Company or a Subsidiary for a certain period; provided, however, that no Option may be exercisable after 10 years from its date of grant.
 
6.4
                                
Payment of Exercise Price
.
 
(a)
                                 
The total purchase price of the shares to be purchased upon exercise of an Option will be paid entirely in cash (including check, bank draft or money order); provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion and upon terms and conditions established by the Committee, may allow such payments to be made, in whole or in part, by (i) tender of a Broker Exercise Notice; (ii) by tender, or attestation as to ownership, of Previously Acquired Shares that have been held for the period of time necessary to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings for financial reporting purposes and that are otherwise acceptable to the Committee; (iii) by a "net exercise of the Option (as further described in paragraph (b), below);  or  (iv) by a combination of such methods.
 
(b)
                                
In the case of a "net exercise" of an Option, the Company will not require a payment of the exercise price of the Option from the Participant but will reduce the number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise by the largest number of whole shares that has a Fair Market Value that does not exceed the aggregate exercise price for the shares exercised under this method. Shares of Common Stock will no longer be outstanding under an Option (and will therefore not thereafter be exercisable) following the exercise of such Option to the extent of (i) shares used to pay the exercise price of an Option under the "net exercise," (ii) shares actually delivered to the Participant as a result of such exercise and (iii) any shares withheld for purposes of tax withholding pursuant to Section 12.1.
 
 
(c)
                                 
Previously Acquired Shares tendered or covered by an attestation as payment of an Option exercise price will be valued at their Fair Market Value on the exercise date.
 
6.5
                                
Manner of Exercise
.  An Option may be exercised by a Participant in whole or in part from time to time, subject to the conditions contained in the Plan and in the agreement evidencing such Option, by delivery in person, by facsimile or electronic transmission or through the mail of written notice of exercise to the Company at its principal executive office in St. Paul, Minnesota and by paying in full the total exercise price for the shares of Common Stock to be purchased in accordance with Section 6.4 of the Plan.
 
.
7.
                                      
Stock Appreciation Rights
 
7.1
                                
Grant
.  An Eligible Recipient may be granted one or more Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan, and such Stock Appreciation Rights will be subject to such terms and conditions, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee will have the sole discretion to determine the form in which payment of the economic value of Stock Appreciation Rights will be made to a Participant (i.e., cash, Common Stock or any combination thereof) or to consent to or disapprove the election by a Participant of the form of such payment.
 
7.2
                                
Exercise Price
.  The exercise price of a Stock Appreciation Right will be determined by the Committee, in its discretion, at the date of grant but may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of grant, except as provided in Section 7.4, below.
 
7.3
                                
Exercisability and Duration
.  A Stock Appreciation Right will become exercisable at such time and in such installments as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion at the time of grant; provided, however, that no Stock Appreciation Right may be exercisable after 10 years from its date of grant.  A Stock Appreciation Right will be exercised by giving notice in the same manner as for Options, as set forth in Section 6.5 of the Plan.
 
7.4
                                
Grants in Tandem with Options
.  Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted alone or in addition to other Incentive Awards, or in tandem with an Option, either at the time of grant of the Option or at any time thereafter during the term of the Option.  A Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Option shall cover the same number of shares of Common Stock as covered by the Option (or such lesser number as the Committee may determine), shall be exercisable at such time or times and only to the extent that the related Option is exercisable, have the same term as the Option and shall have an exercise price equal to the exercise price for the Option.  Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Option, the Option shall be canceled automatically to the extent of the number of shares covered by such exercise; conversely, upon exercise of an Option having a related Stock Appreciation Right, the Stock Appreciation Right shall be canceled automatically to the extent of the number of shares covered by the Option exercise.
 
 
8.
                                      
Restricted Stock Awards.
 
8.1
                                
Grant
.  An Eligible Recipient may be granted one or more Restricted Stock Awards under the Plan, and such Restricted Stock Awards will be subject to such terms and conditions, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee may impose such restrictions or conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, to the vesting of such Restricted Stock Awards as it deems appropriate, including, without limitation, (i) the achievement of one or more of the Performance Criteria; and/or that (ii) the Participant remain in the continuous employ or service of the Company or a Subsidiary for a certain period. 
 
8.2
                                
Rights as a Stockholder; Transferability
.  Except as provided in Sections 8.1, 8.3, 8.4 and 14.3 of the Plan, a Participant will have all voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights with respect to shares of Common Stock issued to the Participant as a Restricted Stock Award under this Section 8 upon the Participant becoming the holder of record of such shares as if such Participant were a holder of record of shares of unrestricted Common Stock.
 
8.3
                                
Dividends and Distributions
.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise in its sole discretion (either in the agreement evidencing the Restricted Stock Award at the time of grant or at any time after the grant of the Restricted Stock Award), any dividends or distributions (other than regular quarterly cash dividends) paid with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to the unvested portion of a Restricted Stock Award will be subject to the same restrictions as the shares to which such dividends or distributions relate.  The Committee will determine in its sole discretion whether any interest will be paid on such dividends or distributions.
 
8.4
                                
Enforcement of Restrictions
.  To enforce the restrictions referred to in this Section 8, the Committee may place a legend on the stock certificates referring to such restrictions and may require the Participant, until the restrictions have lapsed, to keep the stock certificates, together with duly endorsed stock powers, in the custody of the Company or its transfer agent, or to maintain evidence of stock ownership, together with duly endorsed stock powers, in a certificateless book-entry stock account with the Company's transfer agent.
 
. 
9.
                                      
Stock Unit Awards
 
An Eligible Recipient may be granted one or more Stock Unit Awards under the Plan, and such Stock Unit Awards will be subject to such terms and conditions, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee may impose such restrictions or conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, to the payment, issuance, retention and/or vesting of such Stock Unit Awards as it deems appropriate, including, without limitation, (i) the achievement of one or more of the Performance Criteria; and/or that (ii) the Participant remain in the continuous employ or service of the Company or a Subsidiary for a certain period; provided, however, that in all cases payment of a Stock Unit Award will be made within two and one-half months following the end of the Eligible Recipient's tax year during which receipt of the Stock Unit Award is no longer subject
to a "substantial risk of forfeiture" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
 
10.
                                
Performance Awards.
 
An Eligible Recipient may be granted one or more Performance Awards under the Plan, and such Performance Awards will be subject to such terms and conditions, if any, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, including, but not limited to, the achievement of one or more of the Performance Criteria; provided, however, that in all cases payment of the Performance Award will be made within two and one-half months following the end of the Eligible Recipient's tax year during which receipt of the Performance Award is no longer subject to a "substantial risk of forfeiture" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
 
.  The following provisions shall apply upon termination of a Participant's employment or other service with the Company and all Subsidiaries, except to the extent that the Committee provides otherwise in an agreement evidencing an Incentive Award at the time of grant or determines pursuant to Section 11.4.
11.
                                
Effect of Termination of Employment or Other Service
 
11.1
                          
Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability
.  In the event a Participant's employment or other service with the Company and all Subsidiaries is terminated by reason of death or Disability:
 
(a)
                                 
All outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights then held by the Participant will become immediately exercisable in full and will remain exercisable for a period of one year after such termination (but in no event after the expiration date of any such Option or Stock Appreciation Right);
 
(b)
                                
All Restricted Stock Awards then held by the Participant will become fully vested; and
 
(c)
                                 
Any conditions with respect to the payment of Stock Unit Awards and Performance Awards will lapse.
 
11.2
                          
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement
.  Subject to Section 11.5 of the Plan, in the event a Participant's employment or other service with the Company and all Subsidiaries is terminated by reason of Retirement:
 
(a)
                                 
All outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights then held by the Participant will terminate, vest or continue to vest to the extent provided in the applicable agreement evidencing such Incentive Award (but in no event will Options or Stock Appreciation Rights remain exercisable after their expiration date);
 
(b)
                                
All Restricted Stock Awards then held by the Participant that have not vested as of such termination will be terminated and forfeited; and
 
 
(c)
                                 
All outstanding Stock Unit Awards and Performance Awards then held by the Participant will be terminated and forfeited.
 
11.3
                          
Termination of Employment for Reasons Other than Death, Disability or Retirement
. Subject to Section 11.5 of the Plan, in the event a Participant's employment or other service is terminated with the Company and all Subsidiaries for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, or a Participant is in the employ or service of a Subsidiary and the Subsidiary ceases to be a Subsidiary of the Company (unless the Participant continues in the employ or service of the Company or another Subsidiary):
 
(a)
                                 
All outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights then held by the Participant will, to the extent exercisable as of such termination, remain exercisable in full for a period of three months after such termination (but in no event after the expiration date of any such Option or Stock Appreciation Right).  Options and Stock Appreciation Rights not exercisable as of such termination will be forfeited and terminate.
 
(b)
                                
All Restricted Stock Awards then held by the Participant that have not vested as of such termination will be terminated and forfeited; and
 
(c)
                                 
All outstanding Stock Unit Awards and Performance Awards then held by the Participant will be terminated and forfeited.
 
11.4
                          
Modification of Rights Upon Termination
.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 11, upon a Participant's termination of employment or other service with the Company and all Subsidiaries, the Committee may, in its sole discretion (which may be exercised at any time on or after the date of grant, including following such termination), except as provided in clause (ii), below, cause Options or Stock Appreciation Rights (or any part thereof) then held by such Participant to terminate, become or continue to become exercisable and/or remain exercisable following such termination of employment or service, and Restricted Stock Awards, Stock Unit Awards or Performance Awards then held by such Participant to terminate, vest and/or continue to vest or become free of restrictions and conditions to payment, as the case may be, following such termination of employment or service, in each case in the manner determined by the Committee; provided, however, that (i) no Incentive Award may remain exercisable or continue to vest for more than two years beyond the date such Incentive Award would have terminated if not for the provisions of this Section 11.4 but in no event beyond its expiration date; and (ii) any such action adversely affecting any outstanding Incentive Award will not be effective without the consent of the affected Participant (subject to the right of the Committee to take whatever action it deems appropriate under Sections 3.2(c), 4.3 and 13 of the Plan).
 
11.5
                          
Effects of Actions Constituting Cause
.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, in the event that a Participant is determined by the Committee, acting in its sole discretion, to have committed any action which would constitute Cause as defined in Section 2.3, irrespective of whether such action or the Committee's determination occurs before or after
 
 
termination of such Participant's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary, all rights of the Participant under the Plan and any agreements evidencing an Incentive Award then held by the Participant shall terminate and be forfeited without notice of any kind.  The Company may defer the exercise of any Option, the vesting of any Restricted Stock Award or the payment of any Stock Unit Award or Performance Award for a period of up to forty-five (45) days in order for the Committee to make any determination as to the existence of Cause.
 
11.6
                          
Determination of Termination of Employment or Other Service
.
 
(a)
                                 
The change in a Participant's status from that of an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary to that of a non-employee consultant or advisor of the Company or any Subsidiary will, for purposes of the Plan, be deemed to result in a termination of such Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries, unless the Committee otherwise determines in its sole discretion.
 
(b)
                                
The change in a Participant's status from that of a non-employee consultant or  advisor of the Company or any Subsidiary to that of an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary will not, for purposes of the Plan, be deemed to result in a termination of such Participant's service as a non-employee consultant or advisor with the Company and its Subsidiaries, and such Participant will thereafter be deemed to be an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries until such Participant's employment is terminated, in which event such Participant will be governed by the provisions of this Plan relating to termination of employment (subject to paragraph (a), above).
 
(c)
                                 
Unless the Committee otherwise determines in its sole discretion, a Participant's employment or other service will, for purposes of the Plan, be deemed to have terminated on the date recorded on the personnel or other records of the Company or the Subsidiary for which the Participant provides employment or other service, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion based upon such records; provided, however, if distribution of an Incentive Award subject to Section 409A of the Code is triggered by a termination of a Participant's employment, such termination must also constitute a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
 
12.
                                
Payment of Withholding Taxes.
 
12.1
                          
General Rules
.  The Company is entitled to (a) withhold and deduct from future wages of the Participant (or from other amounts that may be due and owing to the Participant from the Company or a Subsidiary), or make other arrangements for the collection of, all legally required amounts necessary to satisfy any and all federal, foreign, state and local withholding and employment-related tax requirements attributable to an Incentive Award, including, without limitation, the grant, exercise or vesting of, or payment of dividends with respect to, an Incentive Award or a disqualifying disposition of stock received upon exercise of an Incentive Stock Option; (b) withhold cash paid or payable or shares of Common Stock from the shares issued or otherwise issuable to the Participant in connection with an Incentive Award; or (c) require the
 
 
Participant promptly to remit the amount of such withholding to the Company before taking any action, including issuing any shares of Common Stock, with respect to an Incentive Award.
 
12.2
                          
Special Rules
.  The Committee may, in its sole discretion and upon terms and conditions established by the Committee, permit or require a Participant to satisfy, in whole or in part, any withholding or employment-related tax obligation described in Section 12.1 of the Plan by electing to tender, or by attestation as to ownership of, Previously Acquired Shares that have been held for the period of time necessary to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings for financial reporting purposes and that are otherwise acceptable to the Committee, by delivery of a Broker Exercise Notice or a combination of such methods.  For purposes of satisfying a Participant's withholding or employment-related tax obligation, Previously Acquired Shares tendered or covered by an attestation will be valued at their Fair Market Value.
 
13.
                                
Change in Control.
 
13.1
                          
A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:
 
(a)
                                 
any "person" as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan of the Company, or any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), is or becomes, including pursuant to a tender or exchange offer for shares of Common Stock pursuant to which purchases are made, the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, other than in a transaction arranged or approved by the Board prior to its occurrence; provided, however, that if any such person will become the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 34% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, a Change in Control will be deemed to occur whether or not any or all of such beneficial ownership is obtained in a transaction arranged or approved by the Board prior to its occurrence, and other than in a transaction in which such person will have executed a written agreement with the Company (and approved by the Board) on or prior to the date on which such person becomes the beneficial owner of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, which agreement imposes one or more limitations on the amount of such person's beneficial ownership of shares of Common Stock, if, and so long as, such agreement (or any amendment thereto approved by the Board provided that no such amendment will cure any prior breach of such agreement or any amendment thereto) continues to be binding on such person and such person is in compliance (as determined by the Board in its sole discretion) with the terms of such agreement (including such amendment); provided, however, that if any such person will become the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, a Change in Control will be deemed to occur
 
 
whether or not such beneficial ownership was held in compliance with such a binding agreement, and provided further that the provisions of this subparagraph (a) shall not be applicable to a transaction in which a corporation becomes the owner of all the Company's outstanding securities in a transaction which complies with the provisions of subparagraph (c) of this Section 13.1 (e.g., a reverse triangular merger); or
 
(b)
                                
during any thirty-six consecutive calendar months, the individuals who constitute the Board on the first day of such period or any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the first day of such period, or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended shall for any reason cease to constitute at least a majority thereof; or
 
(c)
                                 
there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, and in which no "person" (as defined under subparagraph (a) above) acquires 50% or more of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
 
(d)
                                
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.
 
13.2
                          
Acceleration of Vesting
.  Without limiting the authority of the Committee under Sections 3.2 and 4.3 of the Plan, if a Change in Control of the Company occurs, then, if approved by the Committee in its sole discretion either in an agreement evidencing an Incentive Award at the time of grant or at any time after the grant of an Incentive Award: (a) all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will become immediately exercisable in full and will remain exercisable in accordance with their terms; (b) all Restricted Stock Awards will become immediately fully vested and non-forfeitable; and (c) any conditions to the payment of Stock Unit Awards and Performance Awards will lapse.
 
 
13.3
                          
Cash Payment
.  If a Change in Control of the Company occurs, then the Committee, if approved by the Committee in its sole discretion either in an agreement evidencing an Incentive Award at the time of grant or at any time after the grant of an Incentive Award, and without the consent of any Participant affected thereby, may determine that: (i) some or all Participants holding outstanding Options will receive, with respect to some or all of the shares of Common Stock subject to such Options, as of the effective date of any such Change in Control of the Company, cash in an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of such shares immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control of the Company over the exercise price per share of such Options (or, in the event that there is no excess, that such Options will be terminated); and (ii) some or all Participants holding Performance Awards will receive, with respect to some or all of the shares of Common Stock subject to such Performance Awards, as of the effective date of any such Change in Control of the Company, cash in an amount equal the Fair Market Value of such shares immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control.
 
14.
                                
Rights of Eligible Recipients and Participants; Transferability.
 
14.1
                          
Employment or Service
.  Nothing in the Plan will interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of any Eligible Recipient or Participant at any time, nor confer upon any Eligible Recipient or Participant any right to continue in the employ or service of the Company or any Subsidiary.
 
14.2
                          
Rights as a Stockholder; Dividends
.  As a holder of Incentive Awards (other than Restricted Stock Awards), a Participant will have no rights as a stockholder unless and until such Incentive Awards are exercised for, or paid in the form of, shares of Common Stock and the Participant becomes the holder of record of such shares.  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or otherwise provided by the Committee, no adjustment will be made in the amount of cash payable or in the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under Incentive Awards denominated in or based on the value of shares of Common Stock as a result of cash dividends or distributions paid to holders of Common Stock prior to the payment of, or issuance of shares of Common Stock under, such Incentive Awards.  In its discretion, the Committee may provide in an agreement evidencing an Incentive Award that the Participant will be entitled to receive dividend equivalents, in the form of a cash credit to an account for the benefit of the Participant, for any such dividends and distributions.  The terms of any rights to dividend equivalents will be determined by the Committee and set forth in the agreement evidencing the Incentive Award, including the time and form of payment and whether such equivalents will be credited with interest or deemed to be reinvested in Common Stock
; provided, however, that dividend equivalents in respect of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will only be paid out in cash
.
 
14.3
                          
Restrictions on Transfer
.
 
(a)
                                 
Except pursuant to testamentary will or the laws of descent and distribution or as otherwise expressly permitted by subsections (b) and (c) below, no right or interest of any Participant in an Incentive Award prior to the exercise (in the case of Options) or vesting or issuance (in the case of Restricted Stock Awards and Performance
 
 
Awards) of such Incentive Award will be assignable or transferable, or subjected to any lien, during the lifetime of the Participant, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, by operation of law or otherwise.
 
(b)
                                
A Participant will be entitled to designate a beneficiary to receive an Incentive Award upon such Participant's death, and in the event of such Participant's death, payment of any amounts due under the Plan will be made to, and exercise of any Options (to the extent permitted pursuant to Section 11 of the Plan) may be made by,  such beneficiary.  If a deceased Participant has failed to designate a beneficiary, or if a beneficiary designated by the Participant fails to survive the Participant, payment of any amounts due under the Plan will be made to, and exercise of any Options (to the extent permitted pursuant to Section 11 of the Plan) may be made by, the Participant's legal representatives, heirs and legatees.  If a deceased Participant has designated a beneficiary and such beneficiary survives the Participant but dies before complete payment of all amounts due under the Plan or exercise of all exercisable Options, then such payments will be made to, and the exercise of such Options may be made by, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of the beneficiary.
 
(c)
                                 
Upon a Participant's request, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit a transfer of all or a portion of a Non-Statutory Stock Option, other than for value, to such Participant's child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, any person sharing such Participant's household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which any of the foregoing have more than fifty percent of the beneficial interests, a foundation in which any of the foregoing (or the Participant) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Participant) own more than fifty percent of the voting interests.  Any permitted transferee will remain subject to all the terms and conditions applicable to the Participant prior to the transfer.  A permitted transfer may be conditioned upon such requirements as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine, including, but not limited to execution and/or delivery of appropriate acknowledgements, opinion of counsel, or other documents by the transferee.
 
14.4
                          
Non-Exclusivity of the Plan
.  Nothing contained in the Plan is intended to modify or rescind any previously approved compensation plans or programs of the Company or create any limitations on the power or authority of the Board to adopt such additional or other compensation arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or desirable.
 
15.
                                
Securities Law and Other Restrictions.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any agreements entered into pursuant to the Plan, the Company will not be required to issue any shares of Common Stock under this Plan, and a Participant may not sell, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to Incentive Awards granted under the Plan, unless (a) there is in effect with respect to such shares a registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable
securities laws of a state or foreign jurisdiction or an exemption from such registration under the Securities Act and applicable state or foreign securities laws, and (b) there has been obtained any other consent, approval or permit from any other U.S. or foreign regulatory body which the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or advisable.  The Company may condition such issuance, sale or transfer upon the receipt of any representations or agreements from the parties involved, and the placement of any legends on certificates representing shares of Common Stock, as may be deemed necessary or advisable by the Company in order to comply with such securities law or other restrictions.
 
16.
                                
Performance-Based Compensation Provisions.
 
The Committee, when it is comprised solely of two or more outside directors meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code ("Section 162(m)"), in its sole discretion, may designate whether any Incentive Awards are intended to be "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m).  Any Incentive Awards so designated will, to the extent required by Section 162(m), be conditioned upon the achievement of one or more Performance Criteria, and such Performance Criteria will be established by the Committee within the time period prescribed by, and will otherwise comply with the requirements of, Section 162(m) giving due regard to the disparate treatment under Section 162(m) of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights (where compensation is determined based solely on an increase in the value of the underlying stock after the date of grant or award), as compared to other forms of compensation, including Restricted Stock Awards, Stock Unit Awards and Performance Awards.  The Committee shall also certify in writing that such Performance Criteria have been met prior to payment of compensation to the extent required by Section 162(m).
 
.
17.
                                
Compliance with Section 409A
 
It is intended that the Plan and all Incentive Awards hereunder be administered in a manner that will comply with Section 409A of the Code, including proposed, temporary or final regulations or any other guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto.  The Committee is authorized to adopt rules or regulations deemed necessary or appropriate to qualify for an exception from or to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code (including any transition or grandfather rules relating thereto).  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 17 to the contrary, with respect to any Incentive Award subject to Section 409A of the Code, no amendment to or payment under such Incentive Award will be made unless permitted under Section 409A and the regulations or rulings issued thereunder.
 
18.
                                
Plan Amendment, Modification and Termination.
 
The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time.  In addition to the authority of the Committee to amend the Plan under Section 3.2(e), the Board may amend the Plan from time to time in such respects as the Board may deem advisable in order that Incentive Awards under the Plan will conform to any change in applicable laws or regulations or in any other respect the Board may deem to be in the best interests of the
Company; provided, however, that no such amendments to the Plan will be effective without approval of the Company's stockholders if: (i) stockholder approval of the amendment is then required pursuant to Section 422 of the Code or Section 162(m) of the Code or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange; or (ii) such amendment seeks to modify Section 3.2(d) hereof.  No termination, suspension or amendment of the Plan may adversely affect any outstanding Incentive Award without the consent of the affected Participant; provided, however, that this sentence will not impair the right of the Committee to take whatever action it deems appropriate under Sections 3.2(c), 4.3 and 13 of the Plan.
 
19.
                                
Effective Date and Duration of the Plan.
 
The Plan will be effective as of May 6, 2005, or such later date on which the Plan is initially approved by the Company's stockholders.  The Plan will terminate at midnight on the tenth (10th) anniversary of such effective date, and may be terminated prior to such time by Board action.  No Incentive Award will be granted after termination of the Plan.  Incentive Awards outstanding upon termination of the Plan may continue to be exercised, earned or become free of restrictions, according to their terms.
20.
                                
Miscellaneous.
 
20.1
                          
Governing Law
.  Except to the extent expressly provided herein or in connection with other matters of corporate governance and authority (all of which shall be governed by the laws of the Company's jurisdiction of incorporation), the validity, construction, interpretation, administration and effect of the Plan and any rules, regulations and actions relating to the Plan will be governed by and construed exclusively in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota, notwithstanding the conflicts of laws principles of any jurisdictions.
 
20.2
                          
Successors and Assigns
.  The Plan will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the Company and the Participants.
 

Exhibit 10(B)
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into and effective as of this           day of                            ,                     (the "Date of Grant"), by and between Ecolab Inc. (the "Company") and                     (the "Optionee").
 
The Company has adopted the Ecolab Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), authorizing the Board of Directors of the Company, or a committee as provided for in the Plan (the Board or such a committee to be referred to as the "Committee"), to grant non-statutory stock options to employees, consultants, advisors and independent contractors of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
A.
                                  
 
The Company desires to give the Optionee an inducement to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company and an added incentive to advance the interests of the Company by granting to the Optionee an option to purchase shares of common stock of the Company pursuant to the Plan.
B.
                                    
 
Accordingly, the parties agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE 1.  .
GRANT OF OPTION
 
The Company hereby grants to the Optionee the option (the "Option") to purchase                                   (           ) shares (the "Option Shares") of the Company's common stock, $1.00 par value (the "Common Stock"), according to the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth and as set forth in the Plan.  The Option is not intended to be an "incentive stock option," as that term is used in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
 
ARTICLE 2.  .
OPTION EXERCISE PRICE
 
The per share price to be paid by Optionee in the event of an exercise of the Option will be $              .
 
ARTICLE 3.  .
DURATION OF OPTION AND TIME OF EXERCISE
 
.  The Option will be exercisable, on a cumulative basis, as to one-third of the Option Shares (excluding any fractional portion less than one share), on each of the first and second anniversaries of the Date of Grant and as to the remaining Option Shares on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant.  This Option will remain exercisable as to all unexercised Option Shares until 5:00 p.m. (St. Paul, Minnesota time) on the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant ("Time of Termination").
3.1
                                
Initial Period of Exercisability
.
3.2
                                
Termination of Employment or Other Service
 
(a)
                                 
In the event that the Optionee's employment or other service with the Company and all Subsidiaries is terminated by reason of the Optionee's death or Disability, this Option will become immediately exercisable in full and will remain exercisable for a period of one year after such termination (but in no event will this Option be exercisable after the Time of Termination).
 
In the event that the Optionee's employment or other service with the Company and all Subsidiaries is terminated by reason of the Optionee's Retirement, then, subject to clause (ii) hereof, this Option, will become exercisable in full immediately prior to such termination and remain exercisable for a period of five years after such termination (but in no event will this Option be exercisable after the Time of Termination);
(b)(i)
                     
[Insert the following, subject to Committee discretion "if it has been outstanding at least six months from the Date of Grant,"]
 
The acceleration of exercisability of the Option provided for in clause (i) hereof will not occur in the event that the Optionee has committed an act which constitutes Cause, which shall be determined by the Committee acting in its sole discretion, irrespective of whether such action or the Committee's determination occurs before or after termination of the Optionee's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary.
(ii)
                                 
 
In the event the Optionee's employment or other service with the Company and all Subsidiaries is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, all rights of the Optionee under the Plan and this Agreement will immediately terminate without notice of any kind, and this Option will no longer be exercisable; provided, however that if such termination is due to any reason other than termination by the Company or any Subsidiary for Cause, this Option will remain exercisable to the extent exercisable as of such termination for a period of three months after such termination (but in no event will this Option be exercisable after the Time of Termination).
(c)
                                 
 
.  In the event of a Change in Control, then this Option, if it has been outstanding for at least six months from the Date of Grant, will become immediately exercisable in full and will remain exercisable in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
3.3
                                
Change in Control
 
.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that the Optionee is determined by the Committee, acting in its sole discretion, to have committed any action which would constitute Cause, irrespective of whether such action or the Committee's determination occurs before or after termination of the Optionee's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary, all rights of the Optionee under the Plan and this Agreement shall
3.4
                                
Effects of Actions Constituting Cause
terminate and be forfeited without notice of any kind.  The Company may defer the exercise of this Option for up to forty-five (45) days in order for the Committee to make any determination as to the existence of Cause.
 
ARTICLE 4. 
MANNER OF OPTION EXERCISE
 
.  This Option may be exercised by the Optionee in whole or in part from time to time, subject to the conditions contained in the Plan and in this Agreement, by delivery, in person, by facsimile or electronic transmission or through the mail, to the Company at its principal executive office in St. Paul, Minnesota (Attention:  Sr. Vice President-Human Resources), of a written notice of exercise.  Such notice will be in a form satisfactory to the Committee, will identify the Option, will specify the number of Option Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, and will be signed by the person or persons so exercising the Option.  Such notice will be accompanied by payment in full of the total purchase price of the Option Shares purchased.  In the event that the Option is being exercised, as provided by the Plan and Section 3.2 above, by any person or persons other than the Optionee, the notice will be accompanied by appropriate proof of right of such person or persons to exercise the Option.  As soon as practicable after the effective exercise of the Option, the Optionee will be recorded on the stock transfer books of the Company as the owner of the Option Shares purchased, and the Company will deliver to the Optionee certificated or uncertificated ("book entry") shares.  In the event that the Option is being exercised, as provided by resolutions of the Committee and Section 4.2 below, by tender of a Broker Exercise Notice, the Company will deliver such shares directly to the Optionee's broker or dealer or their nominee.
4.1
                                
Notice
 
.  At the time of exercise of this Option, the Optionee will pay the total purchase price of the Option Shares to be purchased solely in cash (including a check, bank draft or money order, payable to the order of the Company); provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may allow such payment to be made, in whole or in part, by tender of a Broker Exercise Notice, by tender, or attestation as to ownership, of Previously Acquired Shares that have been held for the period of time necessary to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings for financial reporting purposes and that are otherwise acceptable to the Committee, by a "net exercise" as described in the Plan, or by a combination of such methods.  In the event the Optionee is permitted to pay the total purchase price of this Option in whole or in part by tender or attestation as to ownership of Previously Acquired Shares, the value of such shares will be equal to their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of this Option.
4.2
                                
Payment
 
ARTICLE 5.  .
NONTRANSFERABILITY
 
Neither this Option nor the Option Shares acquired upon exercise may be transferred by the Optionee, either voluntarily or involuntarily, or subjected to any lien, directly or indirectly, by operation of law or otherwise, except as provided in the Plan.  Any attempt to transfer or encumber this Option or the Option Shares other than in
accordance with this Agreement and the Plan will be null and void and will void this Option.
 
ARTICLE 6.  .
EMPLOYMENT OR OTHER SERVICE
 
Nothing in this Agreement will be construed to (a) limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate the employment or service of the Optionee at any time, or (b) be evidence of any agreement or understanding, express or implied, that the Company will retain the Optionee in any particular position, at any particular rate of compensation or for any particular period of time.
 
ARTICLE 7.  .
WITHHOLDING TAXES
 
.  The Company is entitled to (a) withhold and deduct from future wages of the Optionee (or from other amounts which may be due and owing to the Optionee from the Company), or make other arrangements for the collection of, all legally required amounts necessary to satisfy any federal, state or local withholding and employment-related tax requirements attributable to the grant or exercise of this Option or otherwise incurred with respect to this Option, (b) withhold shares of Common Stock from the shares issued or otherwise issuable to the Optionee in connection with this Option, or (c) require the Optionee promptly to remit the amount of such withholding to the Company before acting on the Optionee's notice of exercise of this Option.  In the event that the Company is unable to withhold such amounts, for whatever reason, the Optionee must promptly pay the Company an amount equal to the amount the Company would otherwise be required to withhold under federal, state or local law.
7.1
                                
General Rules
 
.  The Committee may, in its sole discretion and upon terms and conditions established by the Committee, permit or require the Optionee to satisfy, in whole or in part, any withholding or tax obligation as described in Section 7.1 above by electing to tender, or by attestation as to ownership of, Previously Acquired Shares that have been held for the period of time necessary to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings for financial reporting purposes and that are otherwise acceptable to the Committee, or by a Broker Exercise Notice, or by a combination of such methods.  For purposes of satisfying a Participant's withholding or employment-related tax obligation, Previously Acquired Shares tendered or covered by an attestation will be valued at their Fair Market Value.
7.2
                                
Special Rules
 
ARTICLE 8.  .
ADJUSTMENTS
 
In the event of any reorganization, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, liquidation, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, rights offering, divestiture or extraordinary dividend (including a spin-off), or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of the Company, the Committee (or, if the Company is not the surviving corporation in any such transaction, the board of directors of the
surviving corporation), in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of the Optionee, will make appropriate adjustment (which determination will be conclusive) as to the number, kind and exercise price of securities subject to this Option.
 
ARTICLE 9.  .
SUBJECT TO PLAN
 
.  The Option has been and the Option Shares granted and issued pursuant to this Agreement will be granted and issued under, and are subject to the terms of, the Plan.  The terms of the Plan are incorporated by reference in this Agreement in their entirety, and the Optionee, by execution of this Agreement, acknowledges having received a copy of the Plan. The provisions of this Agreement will be interpreted as to be consistent with the Plan, and any ambiguities in this Agreement will be interpreted by reference to the Plan.  In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan will prevail.
9.1
                                
Terms of Plan Prevail
 
.  Unless otherwise defined in this Agreement, the terms capitalized in this Agreement have the same meanings as given to such terms in the Plan.
9.2
                                
Definitions
 
ARTICLE 10.  .
MISCELLANEOUS
 
.  This Agreement will be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators and successors of the parties to this Agreement.
10.1
                          
Binding Effect
 
.  This Agreement and all rights and obligations under this Agreement will be construed in accordance with the Plan and governed by the laws of the State of Minnesota without regard to conflicts of laws provisions.  Any legal proceedings related to this Agreement will be brought in an appropriate Minnesota court, and the parties to this Agreement consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court for this purpose.
10.2
                          
Governing Law
 
.  This Agreement and the Plan set forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties to this Agreement with respect to the grant and exercise of this Option and the administration of the Plan and supersede all prior agreements, arrangements, plans and understandings relating to the grant and exercise of this Option and the administration of the Plan.
10.3
                          
Entire Agreement
 
.  Other than as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended, waived, modified or canceled only by a written instrument executed by the parties hereto or, in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance.
10.4
                          
Amendment and Waiver
 
.  The Article, Section and paragraph captions in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, do not constitute part of this Agreement and are not to be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any of the provisions of this Agreement.
10.5
                          
Captions
.  For convenience of the parties hereto, this Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart to be deemed an original instrument, and all such counterparts together to constitute the same agreement.
10.6
                          
Counterparts
 
The parties to this Agreement have executed this Agreement effective the day and year first above written.
 
 


