FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20071113082310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(Date of earliest event reported)  
Date of Report
November 9, 2007
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code  
651-293-2233
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 8.01.              
Other Events.
 
On November 9, 2007, Ecolab Inc. ("Ecolab") announced that it completed its acquisition of Microtek Medical Holdings, Inc. ("Microtek"). The acquisition was consummated pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, dated as of August 7, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Ecolab, Microtek, and Magic Acquisition Inc., a newly formed Georgia corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Ecolab ("Merger Sub"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into Microtek (the "Merger"), with Microtek continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Ecolab. All of the outstanding shares of Microtek were acquired by Ecolab in the Merger for $6.30 per share in cash. The purchase price for the acquisition of Microtek was funded by the issuance and sale by Ecolab of commercial paper under its U.S. commercial paper program pursuant to an exemption from registration under federal and state securities laws.
 
A copy of the News Release issued by Ecolab in connection with the acquisition is attached as Exhibit (99), and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01               
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits.
(d)
           
 
(99)         Ecolab Inc. News Release dated November 12, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
News Release
 
Ecolab Inc.
370 Wabasha Street North
St. Paul, Minnesota  55102
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Michael J. Monahan           (651) 293-2809
 
ECOLAB CLOSES ON PURCHASE OF MICROTEK
ST. PAUL, Minn., November 12, 2007:  Ecolab Inc. announced today that it has expanded its infection prevention expertise in the healthcare industry with the purchase of Microtek Medical Holdings Inc. (Nasdaq: MTMD). The Alpharetta, Georgia-based manufacturer and marketer of infection control products for healthcare and acute care facilities specializes in infection barrier equipment drapes, patient drapes, fluid control products and operating room cleanup systems. Microtek's 2006 sales were $142 million.
 
Microtek shareholders voted in favor of the proposed sale of the company to Ecolab. Ecolab will pay $6.30 per Microtek share for the approximately 43.7 million shares of Microtek common stock outstanding as of November 9, 2007.
 
Commenting on the transaction, Ecolab's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Douglas M. Baker, Jr. stated, "Microtek represents a terrific addition to the Ecolab family, and furthers our efforts to become a leader in providing comprehensive solutions to significantly reduce infections and contamination in the healthcare environment. By combining Microtek's excellent barrier product lines with our complementary strength in skin care, disinfectants and central sterile, Ecolab is now the only company that can offer system-wide solutions for healthcare facilities that help improve operational efficiencies, reduce infections, and most importantly, improve patient safety.
"According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than two million healthcare patients contract hospital-acquired infections (HAIs) annually in North America alone. The cost to treat these individuals is estimated to be $30 billion to $50 billion annually, and even with treatment, approximately 100,000 are believed to die each year. With the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently announcing they are considering excluding funding for "preventable" HAIs, healthcare leaders are looking for help in solving this complex problem more than ever before.
 
"Ecolab can provide the layers of protection healthcare facilities are looking for," Baker added. "Our clinically trained healthcare experts can offer healthcare facilities the latest in innovative products and technologies; integrated clinical and support services; data utilization and process improvement; training and continuing education; quality assurance testing; thought leadership; and best practices. We can help our customers clean the patient, break the vectors that could contaminate the patient, and clean the healthcare facility environment."
 
With sales of $5 billion and more than 13,000 sales-and-service associates, Ecolab Inc. (NYSE: ECL) is the global leader in cleaning, sanitizing, food safety and infection prevention products and services. Ecolab delivers comprehensive programs and services to foodservice, food and beverage processing, healthcare, and hospitality markets in more than 160 countries. More news and information is available at www.ecolab.com.
 
(ECL-A)


