FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20081118102345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
 
On November 12, 2008, Ecolab Inc. (the "Company"), along with Henkel AG & Co. KGaA and Henkel Corporation (together, the "Selling Stockholders"), entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters listed therein (the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Selling Stockholders agreed to sell to the Underwriters 61,346,454 shares (the "Offered Shares") of common stock of the Company, including 5,576,950 shares pursuant to the option granted to the Underwriters to cover over-allotments. On November 18, 2008, the public offering and sale (the "Offering") of all of the Offered Shares contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement was consummated.
 
The Offering was registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by a registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155246). The above description of the Underwriting Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
The Underwriters and their affiliates have performed, from time to time, and may in the future perform, various investment banking, commercial lending, financial advisory and other services for the Company, including participating as lenders under the Company's credit facilities, arrangers and dealers under our commercial paper programs and book-running managers of our registered debt offering conducted in February 2008, for which they received or will receive customary compensation.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) 
   
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
November 12, 2008
 
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED,
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters,
c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC,
Eleven Madison Avenue,
New York, N.Y. 10010-3629
 
Dear Sirs:
 
1. 
Introductory
.  Henkel AG& Co. KGaA, a partnership limited by shares organized under the laws of Germany (""), and Henkel Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Henkel KGaA ("", and together with Henkel KGaA,  the "") propose severally to sell to the Underwriters an aggregate of 55,769,504 outstanding shares ("") of the Common Stock ("") of Ecolab Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and Henkel Corp also proposes severally to sell to the Underwriters, at the option of the Underwriters, an aggregate of not more than 5,576,950 additional outstanding shares ("") of the Company's Securities as set forth below.  The Firm Securities and the Optional Securities are herein collectively called the "".  The Selling Stockholders, the Company and the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto ("") hereby agree as follows:
Henkel KGaA
Henkel Corp
Selling Stockholders
Firm Securities
Securities
Company
Optional Securities
Offered Securities
Underwriters
 
2.  .  (a) The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company and the Selling Stockholders
 
(i)  .  The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-155246), including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Offered Securities under the Act, which has become effective.  "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified.  "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time.  For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
 
For purposes of this Agreement:
 
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
 
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
 
"" means 5:45 pm (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
 
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Offered Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Offered Securities.
Effective Time
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
 
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Offered Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
)
 
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
 
"" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Rules and Regulations, the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as applicable, the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ Stock Market ("").
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
Exchange Rules
 
"" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Offered Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement.  For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
 
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
 
(ii) 
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
.  (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Offered Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all respects to
the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by the Selling Stockholders or by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(c) hereof.
 
(iii)  .  (1)  .  (A)  At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Offered Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
 
(iv)  .  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
 
(v)  .  The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  If at any time when Offered Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Offered Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Offered Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
 
(vi)  .  The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Offered Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
 
(vii)  .  (i)  At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Selling Stockholders made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Offered Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(viii)  .  As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated November 10, 2008, including the base prospectus, dated November 10, 2008, (which is the Statutory Prospectus used most recently prior to the Applicable Time),and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Selling Stockholders or by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(c) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
 
(ix)  .  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Offered Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the "") as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement.  If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission. 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Representatives
The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Selling Stockholders or by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(c) hereof.
 
(x)  .  The Company has been duly incorporated and is existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified and in good standing would not be reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or business of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (a "").
Good Standing of the Company
Material Adverse Effect
 
(xi)  .  Each subsidiary of the Company that is a significant subsidiary, as defined under Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X (individually a "," and, collectively, the "") has been duly incorporated or organized and is validly existing and in good standing as a corporation or other legal entity under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization to the extent such concept is applicable in such jurisdiction, with
Subsidiaries
Significant Subsidiary
Significant Subsidiaries
power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and each subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification except where the failure to be so qualified would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xii)  .  The Offered Securities and all other outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized; the authorized equity capitalization of the Company is as set forth in the General Disclosure Package; all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company are, and, when the Offered Securities have been delivered and paid for in accordance with this Agreement on each Closing Date, such Offered Securities will have been, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, will conform, in all material respects, to the information in the General Disclosure Package and to the description of such Offered Securities contained in the Final Prospectus; the stockholders of the Company have no preemptive rights with respect to the Securities; and none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of any security holder.
Offered Securities
 
(xiii)  .  Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person granting such person the right to require the Company to file a registration statement under the Act with respect to any securities of the Company owned or to be owned by such person or to require the Company to include such securities in the securities registered pursuant to a Registration Statement or in any securities being registered pursuant to any other registration statement filed by the Company under the Act (collectively, ""), and any person other than the Selling Stockholders to whom the Company has granted registration rights has agreed not to exercise such rights until after the expiration of the Lock-Up Period referred to in Section 5 hereof.
Registration Rights
registration rights
 
(xiv)  .  The Offered Securities are listed on The New York Stock Exchange.
Listing
 
(xv)  .  No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or filing or registration with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required for the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except such as have been obtained or made and such as may be required under state securities laws and in each case other than such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, filings or registrations which would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Further Requirements
 
(xvi)  .  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company, and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, (i) the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, (ii) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of their properties or (iii) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is subject, except with respect to (ii) and (iii) only, such breaches, violations or defaults which would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction
 
(xvii) 
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
.  Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is in violation of its respective charter or by-laws or in default (or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would be in default) under any existing obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any material indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or
other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of the properties of any of them is subject, except such defaults that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xviii)  .  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
 
(xix)  .  The Company and its subsidiaries possess all material certificates, authorizations, franchises, licenses and permits ("") necessary to the conduct of the business now conducted by them and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any License that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a
Possession of Licenses and Permits
Licenses
Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xx)  .  No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent that could have a Material Adverse Effect
Absence of Labor Dispute
, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package.
 
(xxi)  Except as disclosed in both the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, (a)(i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of, or has any liability under, any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, other requirement or rule of law (including common law), or decision or order of any domestic or foreign governmental agency, governmental body or court, relating to pollution, to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, discharge, disposal or release of Hazardous Substances, to the protection or restoration of the environment or natural resources (including biota), to health and safety including as such relates to exposure to Hazardous Substances, and to natural resource damages (collectively, ""), (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has been named a "potentially responsible party" under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended) or any similar state law, in relation to any release or threatened release of Hazardous Substances, including at any off-site treatment, storage or disposal site, (iii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any claim by any governmental agency or governmental body or person relating to Environmental Laws or Hazardous Substances, and (iv) the Company and its subsidiaries have received and are in compliance with all, and have no liability under any, permits, licenses, authorizations, identification numbers or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, except in each case covered by clauses (i)  (iv) such as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) to the knowledge of the Company there are no facts or circumstances that have resulted in, or would reasonably be expected to result in a violation of, liability under, or claim pursuant to any Environmental Law that would have a Material Adverse Effect; (c) to the knowledge of the Company there are no requirements proposed for adoption or implementation under any Environmental Law that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (d) in the ordinary course of its business, the Company periodically evaluates the effect, including associated costs and liabilities, of Environmental Laws on the business, properties, results of operations and financial condition of it and its subsidiaries, and, on the basis of such evaluation, the Company has reasonably concluded that such associated costs and liabilities will not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  For purposes of this subsection "" means (A) petroleum and petroleum products, by-products or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and mold, and (B) any other chemical, material or substance defined or regulated as toxic or hazardous or as a pollutant or contaminant under Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Substances
(xxii)  .  The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the headings "Description of Common Stock" and "Material United States Income Tax Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders" insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, are, in all material respects, accurate and fair summaries of such legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings.
Accurate Disclosure
 
(xxiii)  .  The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities, it being understood that the purchase of Securities by the Company from the Selling Stockholders pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated November 10, 2008 between the Company and the Selling Stockholders (the "") would not constitute a stabilization of manipulation of the price of any Security; that no such representation is made with respect to any action undertaken by any Underwriter.
Absence of Manipulation
Stock Purchase Agreement
provided
 
(xxiv)  .  There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith, including Section 402 relating to loans and Sections 302 and 906 relating to certifications.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
(xxv)  .  The Company maintains a system of internal accounting control over financial reporting with respect to itself and its consolidated subsidiaries sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. General Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls
 
(xxvi)  .  The Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective as of September 30, 2008, and the Company is not aware of any material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting.
Absence of Accounting Issues
 
(
xxvii)  .  Except as disclosed in both the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and, to the Company's knowledge, no such actions, suits or proceedings are threatened.
Litigation
 
(xxviii)  .  The consolidated financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as otherwise set forth therein.
Financial Statements
 
(xxix)  .  Except as disclosed in both the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, since the end of the period covered by the latest
No Material Adverse Change in Business
audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package (i) there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the financial condition, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (ii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by both the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change in the capital stock, short-term indebtedness, long-term indebtedness, net current assets or net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(xxx)  .  The Company is not an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
 
(xxxi)  .  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the ""), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA; and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977
FCPA
 
(xxxii)  .  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("").
OFAC
OFAC
 
(b)  Each Selling Stockholder severally represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
 
(i)   Such Selling Stockholder has the legal right, power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to sell, assign, transfer and deliver the Offered Securities to be delivered by such Selling Stockholder on each Closing Date hereinafter mentioned; such Selling Stockholder is the record and beneficial owner of the securities to be sold by it hereunder free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities and claims; assuming that each Underwriter acquires its interest in the Offered Securities it has purchased without notice of any adverse claim (within the meaning of Section 8.105 of the New York Uniform Commercial code (the "")), each Underwriter that has purchased Offered Securities delivered on the date hereof to DTC by making payment therefor, as provided herein, and that has had such Offered Securities credited to the securities account or accounts of such Underwriter maintained with DTC will have acquired a "security entitlement" (within the meaning of Section 8-102(a)(17) of the UCC) to such Offered Securities purchased by such Underwriter, and no action based on an adverse claim may be asserted against such Underwriter with respect to such Offered Securities.
Title to Securities.
UCC
 
(ii)  .  No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing with, any person (including any governmental agency or body or any court) is required to be obtained or made by such Selling Stockholder for the consummation of the transactions
Absence of Further Requirements
contemplated by this Agreement in connection with the offering and sale of the Offered Securities sold by such Selling Stockholder, except such as have been obtained and made under the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and such as may be required under state securities laws;
 
(iii)  .  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such Selling Stockholder and the consummation by such Selling Stockholder of the transactions herein contemplated will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of such Selling Stockholder pursuant to, any statute, any rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court having jurisdiction over such Selling Stockholder or any of its properties or any agreement or instrument to which such Selling Stockholder is a party or by which such Selling Stockholder is bound or to which any of the properties of such Selling Stockholder is subject, or the charter or by-laws of such Selling Stockholder if it is a corporation or the constituent documents of such Selling Stockholder if it is not a natural person or a corporation;
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction
 
(iv)  .  (i) (A) At their respective Effective Times, (B) on the date of this Agreement and (C) on each Closing Date, each of the Initial Registration Statement and the Additional Registration Statement (if any) conformed and will conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act and (ii) (A) on its date, at the time of filing of the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) or (if no such filing is required) at the Effective Time of the Additional Registration Statement in which the Final Prospectus is included, and on each Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations and (B) at such times, the Final Prospectus and at the Effective Time, the General Disclosure Package, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.  The preceding sentence applies only to statements in or omissions from any such document made in reliance on and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by such Selling Stockholder specifically for use therein.
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
 
(v)  .  The sale of the Offered Securities by such Selling Stockholder pursuant to this Agreement is not prompted by any material information concerning the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is not set forth the General Disclosure Package.
No Undisclosed Material Information
 
(vi)    This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by such Selling Stockholder.
Authorization of Agreement.
 
(vii)   Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between such Selling Stockholder and any person that would give rise to a valid claim against such Selling Stockholder or any Underwriter for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or other like payment in connection with this offering.
No Finder's Fee.
 
(viii) .  Such Selling Stockholder has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that has constituted or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities, it being understood that the sales of Securities to the Company by the Selling Stockholders pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement would not constitute a stabilization or manipulation of the price of any Security; that no such representation is made with respect to any action undertaken by any Underwriter.
Absence of Manipulation
provided
 
3.  .  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, but subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, each Selling
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Offered Securities
Stockholder agrees, severally and not jointly, to sell to the Underwriters, and each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from each Selling Stockholder, at a purchase price of $29.96625 per share, the number of Firm Securities set forth below the name of such Selling Stockholder and opposite the name of such Underwriter in Schedule A hereto.
 
The Selling Stockholders will deliver the Firm Securities to the Representatives through the facilities of DTC for the accounts of the Underwriters, against payment of the purchase price in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account specified by such Selling Stockholder and at a bank acceptable to the Representatives.  The documents to be delivered hereunder on such Closing Date shall be delivered at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at 9:00 A.M., New York time, on November 18, 2008, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Selling Stockholders determine, such time being herein referred to as the "".
First Closing Date
 
In addition, upon written notice from the Representatives given to the Company and the Selling Stockholders from time to time not more than 30 days subsequent to the date of the Prospectus, the Underwriters may purchase all or less than all of the Optional Securities at the purchase price per Security to be paid for the Firm Securities.  Henkel Corp agrees to sell to the Underwriters the number of Optional Securities specified in such notice and the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase such Optional Securities. Such Optional Securities shall be purchased for the account of each Underwriter in the same proportion as the number of shares of Firm Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name bears to the total number of shares of Firm Securities (subject to adjustment by the Representatives to eliminate fractions) and may be purchased by the Underwriters only for the purpose of covering over-allotments made in connection with the sale of the Firm Securities.  No Optional Securities shall be sold or delivered unless the Firm Securities previously have been, or simultaneously are, sold and delivered.  The right to purchase the Optional Securities or any portion thereof may be exercised from time to time and to the extent not previously exercised may be surrendered and terminated at any time upon notice by the Representatives to the Company and Selling Stockholders.
 
Each time for the delivery of and payment for the Optional Securities, being herein referred to as an "", which may be the First Closing Date (the First Closing Date and each Optional Closing Date, if any, being sometimes referred to as a ""), shall be determined by the Representatives but shall be not later than five full business days after written notice of election to purchase Optional Securities is given.  Henkel Corp will deliver the Optional Securities being purchased on each Optional Closing Date to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters, against payment of the purchase price in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank specified by Henkel Corp and acceptable to the Representatives, at the above office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP.
Optional Closing Date
Closing Date
 
4.  .  It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Offered Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
 
5.  .  (a) The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company and the Selling Stockholders
 
(i)   
Filing of Prospectuses. 
The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b)(3) (or, if applicable and consented to by the Representatives, subparagraph (5)) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the date of this Agreement.  The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433 with respect to the Offered Securities.
 
(ii)   .  The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the
 
Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Offered Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose.  The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
 
(iii)  .  If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance.  Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
(iv) 
Rule 158. 
As soon as practicable, but not later than 16 months, after the date of this Agreement, the Company will make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement and satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
 
(v)   .  The Company will furnish to the Representatives copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits,
Furnishing of Prospectuses
and, so long as a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act, copies of any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case as soon as available and in such quantities as the Representatives reasonably request.  The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
 
(vi)  .  The Company will arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives reasonably designate and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution; that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not now qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the offering or sale of the Offered Securities, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided
 
(vii) .  During the period of five years hereafter, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year; and the Company will furnish to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request.  However, so long as the
Reporting Requirements
Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
EDGAR
 
(viii)  .  The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters) incurred in connection with qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto,
Payment of Expenses
fees and expenses incident to listing the Offered Securities on the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, NASDAQ Stock Market and other national and foreign exchanges, fees and expenses in connection with the registration of the Offered Securities under the Exchange Act, and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors.  The Selling Stockholders and the Company agree that nothing in this paragraph 5(a)(viii) amends or otherwise alters any existing agreement between the Company and the Selling Stockholders with respect to responsibilities for expenses in connection with the Offered Securities.
 
(ix)  .  The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities, it being understood that the purchase of Securities by the Company from the Selling Stockholders pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement would not contribute a stabilization or manipulation of the price of any Security.
Absence of Manipulation
 
(x)  For the period specified below (the ""), the Company will not, directly or indirectly, take any of the following actions with respect to its Securities or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any of its Securities (""):  (i) offer, sell, issue, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of Lock-Up Securities, (ii) offer, sell, issue, contract to sell, contract to purchase or grant any option, right or warrant to purchase Lock-Up Securities, (iii) enter into any swap, hedge or any other agreement that transfers, in whole or in part, the economic consequences of ownership of Lock-Up Securities, (iv) establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position in Lock-Up Securities within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or (v) file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to Lock-Up Securities, or publicly disclose the intention to take any such action, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, except
Restriction on Sale of Securities. 
Lock-Up Period
Lock-Up Securities
(a) grants of equity awards pursuant to the terms of a plan in effect on the date hereof or disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, (b) issuances of Lock-Up Securities pursuant to the exercise of such awards or the exercise of any other equity awards outstanding on the date hereof, (c) the filing of any amendment or supplements to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155246, solely in connection with securities offered by the Selling Stockholders as of the date hereof), (d) the filing of any registration statement on Form S-8 to register shares of its Lock-Up Securities reserved for issuance under the Company's employee stock plans, (e) the issuance by the Company of up to 10% of the Securities outstanding as of the date of this Agreement or as reported in the Company's most recent periodic report as consideration or partial consideration for the acquisition of another corporation or entity or the acquisition of assets or properties of any such corporation or entity, so long as each of the recipients of the Securities agrees in writing to be bound by the restrictions described in this paragraph for the remainder of the Lock-Up Period, (f) the filing of a registration statement with the commission on Form S-4 for a planned issuance of Securities in
connection with an acquisition or merger, so long as no Securities are issued pursuant to the Form S-4 until after the end of the Lock-Up Period, and (g) the filing of a registration statement or prospectus with the Commission pursuant to a request by the Selling Stockholders for the sale of Securities owned by them on the date of this Agreement.  The Lock-Up Period will commence on the date hereof and continue for 90 days after the date hereof or such earlier date that the Representatives consent to in writing.
 
(b)  Each Selling Stockholder agrees with the several Underwriters and the Company that:
 
(i)    .  Such Selling Stockholder will pay all of its expenses incident to the performance of the obligations such Selling Stockholder under this Agreement, including any taxes incident to the sale and delivery to the Underwriters of the Offered Securities to be sold by such Selling Stockholder;
Payment of Expenses
provided
, that the Representatives agree to pay any New York State stock transfer tax on such sale and delivery, and the Selling Stockholders agree to reimburse the Representatives for associated carrying costs if such tax payment is not rebated on the date of payment and for any portion of such payment not rebated; and that nothing herein shall affect any allocation of expenses among the Company and the Selling Stockholders pursuant to any separate agreement among them.  In addition, the Selling Stockholders jointly agree to reimburse the Company for all of their costs and expenses relating to investors presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Offered Securities, including the full cost of chartering any plane.  Except as provided, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including without limitation the fees of their counsel, stock transfer taxes on resale of any of the Offered Securities by them, and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
further provided
 
(ii)   .  Each Selling Stockholder agrees during the Lock-Up Period not to offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any additional shares of the Securities of the Company or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of Securities, enter into a transaction which would have the same effect, or enter into any swap, hedge or other arrangement that transfers, in whole or part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of the Securities, whether any such aforementioned transaction is to be settled by delivery of the Securities or such other securities, in cash or otherwise, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge or disposition, or enter into any such transaction, swap, hedge or other arrangement, without, in each case, the prior written consent of the Representatives; that such restrictions shall not apply to any sales of Securities to the Company.  The initial Lock-Up Period will commence on the date hereof and will continue and include the date 90 days after the date hereof or such earlier date that the Representatives consent to in writing.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
provided
 
6.  .  (A) The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, (B) each Selling Stockholder represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives and (C) each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Offered Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "."  Each of the Company, the Selling Stockholders and the Underwriters represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
7.  .  The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Firm Securities on the First Closing Date and the Optional Securities to be purchased on each Optional Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties (in the case of such representations and warranties not qualified by materiality, in all material respects) on the part of the Company and the Selling Stockholders herein (as though made on such Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made in any certificate pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company and the Selling Stockholders of their obligations (in the case of the performance of obligations not qualified by materiality, in all material respects) hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
 
(a)  .  The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and each Closing Date, of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws and substantially in the form of Schedule C hereto (except that, in any letter dated a Closing Date, the specified date referred to in Schedule C hereto shall be a date no more than three days prior to such Closing Date).
Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
(b)  
Filing of Prospectus. 
The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a)(i) hereof.  No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company, any Selling Stockholder or any Underwriter, shall be contemplated by the Commission.
 
(c)  .  Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the financial condition, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities.
No Material Adverse Change
 
(d)  .  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of (i) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, counsel for the Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Schedule D, and (ii) Lawrence T. Bell, General Counsel of the Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Schedule E.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(e) (i)  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of Heinz Nicolas, counsel for Henkel KGaA, to the effect that:
 
(1)           Henkel KGaA is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of Germany.
 
(2)           Henkel KGaA has full power and authority to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of the Underwriting Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.
 
(3)           The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement by HenkelKGaA have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of Henkel KGaA, and the Underwriting Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Henkel KGaA;
 
(4)           The execution, delivery and performance by Henkel KGaA of the Underwriting Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby will not (i) result in a violation of the Charter (Satzung) of Henkel KGaA; (ii) conflict with, result in the breach of any of the terms or conditions of, constitute a default under, or violate, accelerate or permit the acceleration of any other similar right of any other party, of any agreement, lease, mortgage, note, bond, indenture, license or other document or undertaking to which Henkel KGaA is a party or by which Henkel KGaA or any of its properties may be bound; (iii) violate any order, writ, injunction or decree known to me of any governmental agency or body or any court having jurisdiction over Henkel KGaA or any of its properties; or (iv) result in a violation of any German law or published rule or regulation that in my experience normally would be applicable to general business entities with respect to such execution, delivery and performance.
 
(ii)  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of Paul R. Berry, counsel for Henkel Corp, to the effect that:
 
(1)           Henkel Corp is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware;
 
(2)           Henkel Corp has full power and authority to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of the Underwriting Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby;
 
(3)           The execution, delivery and performance by Henkel Corp of the Underwriting Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby will not (i) result in a violation of the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of Henkel Corp; (ii) conflict with, result in the breach of any of the terms or conditions of, constitute a default under, or violate, accelerate or permit the acceleration of any other similar right of any other party, of any agreement, lease, mortgage, note, bond, indenture, license or other document or undertaking to which Henkel Corp is a party or by which Henkel Corp or any of its properties may be bound; (iii) violate any order, writ, injunction or decree known to me of any governmental agency or body or any court having jurisdiction over Henkel Corp or any of its properties; or (iv) result in a violation of any Delaware law or published rule or regulation that in my experience normally would be applicable to general business entities with respect to such execution, delivery and performance.
 
(iii)  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated such Closing Date, of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Selling Stockholders, to the effect that:
(1)           Assuming that (a) DTC is a "clearing corporation" as defined in Section 8- 102(a)(5) of the UCC, and (b) each of the Underwriters acquires its interest in the Offered Securities it has purchased without notice of any adverse claim (within the meaning of Section 8-105 of the UCC), each Underwriter that has purchased Offered Securities from the Selling Stockholders delivered on the date hereof to DTC, made payment therefor pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and has had such Offered Securities credited to a securities account of such Underwriter maintained with DTC will have acquired a securities entitlement (within the meaning of Section 8-102(a)(17) of the UCC) to such Offered Securities, and no action based on an adverse claim may be asserted against such Underwriter with respect to such security entitlement;
 
(2)           The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement by Henkel Corp have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of Henkel Corp, and the Underwriting Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Henkel Corp;
 
(3)           The Underwriting Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Henkel KGaA under the law of the State of New York;
 
(4)           The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement by each of the Selling Stockholders do not, and the performance by each of the Selling Stockholders of its obligations in the Underwriting Agreement will not, (a) require any consent, approval, authorization, registration or qualification of, or with any governmental authority of the United States or the State of New York that in our experience normally would be applicable with respect to such execution and delivery, except such as have been obtained or effected under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in connection with the sale of the Offered Securities (but we express no opinion relating to any state securities or Blue Sky laws) or (b) result in a violation of any New York or federal law or published rule or regulation that in our experience normally would be applicable to general business entities with respect to such execution, delivery and performance (except that we express no opinion relating to the U.S. federal securities laws or any state securities or Blue Sky laws)  or (c) result in a breach of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, the Stock Purchase Agreement or the Second Amneded and Restated Stockholder's Agreement dated as of November 30, 2001 between the Company and Henkel KGaA (f/k/a Henkel Kommanditgesellschaft aud Aktien) as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Second Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement dated as of November 10, 2008 between the Company and Henkel KGaA.
 
(f)  The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company and the Selling Stockholders shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.  In rendering such opinion, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP may rely as to the formation of Henkel KGaA and all other matters governed by German law upon the opinion of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP referred to above.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters. 
 
(g)  .  The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated such Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to the best of their knowledge are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent
Officer's Certificate
financial statements in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the financial condition, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, Final Prospectus or as described in such certificate.
 
(h)  To avoid a 28% backup withholding tax each Selling Stockholder agrees to deliver to the Representatives prior to closing a properly completed and executed United States Treasury Department Form W-9 or W-8BEN (or other applicable form or statement specified by Treasury Department regulations in lieu thereof).
 
The Selling Stockholders and the Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably request.  The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder, whether in respect of an Optional Closing Date or otherwise.
 
8.  .  (a)  .  The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the Selling Stockholders or by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (c) below.
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters by the Company
Indemnified Party
provided
however
 
(b) .  The Selling Stockholders, jointly and severally, will indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Party against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation,
Indemnification of Underwriters by the Selling Stockholders
investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; , , that the Selling Stockholders will only be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company by such Selling Stockholder specifically for use therein.
provided
however
 
(c)  . 
Indemnification of Company and the Selling Stockholders by the Underwriters
Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless each of the Company and each Selling Stockholder, and their respective directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company or such Selling Stockholder (as applicable) within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an "Underwriter Indemnified Party") against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of any Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the following information in any Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package:  the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the fourth paragraph and the eleventh paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
 
(d)  .  Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a), (b) or (c) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a), (b) or (c) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and
Actions against Parties; Notification
provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a), (b) or (c) above.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the
 
subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
 
(e)  .  If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a), (b) or (c) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a), (b) or (c) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Selling Stockholders on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Selling Stockholders on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative benefits received by the Company and the Selling Stockholders on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Selling Stockholders bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters.  The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Selling Stockholders or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission.  The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (e) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (e).  Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (e), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (e) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.  The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(e) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
Contribution
 
(f)  The obligations of the Company and the Selling Stockholders under this Section shall be in addition to any liability which the Company and the Selling Stockholders may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Act; and the obligations of the Underwriters under this Section shall be in addition to any liability which the respective Underwriters may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each director of the Company and the Selling Stockholders, to each officer of the Company who has signed a Registration Statement and to each person, if any, who controls the Company and the Selling Stockholders within the meaning of the Act.
 
9.  .  If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Offered Securities hereunder on either the First or any Optional Closing Date and the aggregate number of shares of Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total number of shares of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on such Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company and the Selling Stockholders for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by such Closing Date, the non-defaulting
Default of Underwriters
Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on such Closing Date.  If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate number of shares of Offered Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total number of shares of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on such Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives, the Company and the Selling Stockholders for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter, the Company or the Selling Stockholders, except as provided in Section 10 (provided that if such default occurs with respect to Optional Securities after the First Closing Date, this Agreement will not terminate as to the Firm Securities or any Optional Securities purchased prior to such termination).  As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section.  Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
 
10.  . 
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Selling Stockholders, of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, any Selling Stockholder, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Offered Securities.  If the purchase of the Offered Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 9, the Selling Stockholders and the Company, jointly and severally, will reimburse the Underwriters for all documented out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities; that the amount of such expenses shall not exceed $75,000.  If the purchase of Offered Securities is not consummated for any reason, the respective obligations of the Company, the Selling Stockholders and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 shall remain in effect.
provided
 
11.  .  All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives, c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010-3629, Attention:  LCD-IBD, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at Ecolab Inc., Attention: General Counsel (fax no. (651) 293-2471), 370 Wabasha Street North, St. Paul, Minnesota 55102, or, if sent to the Selling Stockholders, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Henkelstrasse 67, Postfach 1100, D-4000 Dusseldorf 1, Germany, Attention: General Counsel (facsimile: +49 211 7 98 24 63), with a copy to Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, One Liberty Plaza, New York, NY 10006, Attention: William A. Groll (facsimile: 1-212-225-3999)
Notices
; , , that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
provided
however
 
12.  .  This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
 
13.  .  The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation
 
14.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.  Facsimile signatures shall constitute original signatures.
Counterparts
15.  The Company and the Selling Stockholders acknowledge and agree that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship. 
 
(a)  p.  The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of Offered Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company or the Selling Stockholders, on the one hand, and the Representatives, on the other,  has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or are advising the Company or the Selling Stockholders on other matters;
No Other Relationshi
 
(b)  .  The price of the Offered Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Selling Stockholders following discussions and arms' length negotiations with the Representatives, and the Selling Stockholders are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiation
 
(c)  .  The Company has and the Selling Stockholders have been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company or the Selling Stockholders and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company or the Selling Stockholders by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
 
(d)  .  The Company and the Selling Stockholders waive, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims they may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transaction contemplated by this Agreement and agree that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company or the Selling Stockholders in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver
 
16.  .  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law
 
The Company and the Selling Stockholders each hereby submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. 
The Company and the Selling Stockholders each irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement among the Selling Stockholders, the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
 
Acting on behalf of themselves and as the Representatives of the several Underwriters.
 
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
 
 
 
1.
             
General Use Free Writing Prospectuses (included in the General Disclosure Package)
 
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
 
None.
 
2.
             
Other Information Included in the General Disclosure Package
 
The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
 
1.  The initial price to the public of the Offered Securities.
 
2.  The aggregate number of Offered Securities sold.
 


