FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20100301161329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
                                             
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
.
Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On February 26, 2010, the Board of Directors of Ecolab Inc. (the "Company") approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Change in Control Severance Compensation Policy (the "Policy"), which t
he Company maintains for its elected officers (other than assistant officers). The following description of the Policy and the provisions adopted or amended is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amended and restated policy attached as Exhibit (10) and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
The Policy entitles an officer to a severance payment if, within two years following a change-in-control, the officer's employment with the Company is terminated without Just Cause (as defined in the Policy) or the officer voluntarily terminates employment for Good Reason (as defined in the Policy). The severance payment is paid in a lump sum equal to the sum of (i) two times the sum of the officer's base salary plus target annual cash incentive; plus (ii) a pro-rated portion of the target annual cash incentive for the year of termination. The officer also is entitled to payment of reasonable outplacement service fees up to 20% of base salary and continuation, for up to 18 months, of medical and dental health coverage at the cost the officer paid prior to termination of employment. The Policy does not provide a gross-up for the excise tax under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. However, the Policy does provide for a reduction of payments if the Policy results in higher after-tax income to the officer due to 280G excise tax. As a condition of the payment of such benefits, the officer must release the Company from employment-related claims. The Board of Directors may terminate the Policy after two years' advance notice except that the Policy may not be terminated within two years after a change-in-control has occurred.
 
In connection with the amendment and restatement of the Policy, certain of the events constituting a change in control under the Policy have been modified. In particular, certain circumstances that would permit a person or group to hold in excess of 25% of the Company's voting power have been eliminated, the time period for determining whether a majority of the continuing directors have ceased to serve (thus resulting in a change in control) has been reduced from 36 months to 24 months, a change in control upon a liquidation of the Company is now conditioned upon consummation of the plan of liquidation instead of shareholder approval of such plan, and a change in control upon the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets is now conditioned upon consummation of  the sale instead of consummation of the sale agreement. As amended, a change in control will occur under the Policy if:
 
                                         
A person or group acquires 25% or more of the Company's outstanding voting power;
 
                                         
During any 24 consecutive month period, individuals who constitute the Board on the first day of the period or any new director (other than a director
 
whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election relating to the election of directors) whose election or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors on the first day of such period (or whose election or nomination were previously so approved) shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors;
 
                                         
the Company engages in a merger or consolidation, other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company's voting securities immediately prior to the transaction continue to represent over 50% of the voting power of the Company or the surviving entity immediately after the transaction and in which no person or group acquires 50% or more of the voting power of the Company or surviving entity; and
 
                                         
the consummation of a plan of complete liquidation or the consummation of the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than to an entity with more than 50% of its voting power owned by the Company's stockholders in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to the sale.
 
Item 5.03.
                                             
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
.
 
Ecolab's Board of Directors approved amendments to the Company's By-Laws effective February 26, 2010.  The following description of the provisions adopted or amended is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amended and restated By-Laws attached as Exhibit (3) and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
 
                 
Article II, Sections 3 and 4 were revised to change the advance notice periods for stockholder proposals and nominations at annual meetings from not less than 90 or more than 120 days to not less than 120 or more than 150 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting. In the case of stockholder nominations at a special meeting of the Company's stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, to be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed an received by the Company not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which notice of the special meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
 
                 
Article II, Section 6 was revised to lower the threshold for the Company's stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders from 80% to 25% of the voting power of the Company's outstanding capital stock and to establish procedures for calling and holding a special meeting.
 
                 
Article II, Sections 7, 8 and 9 were revised  to clarify procedures for the notice and conduct of each annual and special meeting of the Company's stockholders.
 
                 
Article II, Section 14 was revised to establish procedures for stockholders to act by written consent, including procedures for the Board of Directors to establish a record date to determine stockholders entitled to act by written consent.  The amended By-Law requires the Board of Directors to fix a record date promptly, but in all events within ten days, after receiving a valid request to fix a record date.  The record date set by the Board can not be more than ten days after the date of the Board action to establish the record date.
 
                 
Article III, Sections 10, 12  15 were revised  to clarify certain procedures relating to actions taken by the Board of Directors, including the ability to take action by written consent by means of electronic transmission and filling vacancies on the Board of Directors.
 
                 
Article IV, Sections 1 and 8 were revised to provide for the election of certain officers of the Company and to provide that, in the absence of the Chairman, the President or another person selected by the Board of Directors, will preside at all meetings of stockholders and the Board of Directors.
 
                 
Article V, Section 1 was revised  to provide mandatory indemnification to non-officer employees of the Company who serve for the benefit of the Company as officers or directors of other entities. Prior to the amendments, the By-Laws permitted indemnification of these employees but did not mandate such coverage.
 
Item 8.01.
                                             
Other Events
.
 
On February 26, 2010, Ecolab announced that its Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to 10,000,000 additional shares of its common stock. The purchases may be conducted from time to time in the open market; in privately negotiated transactions from time-to-time, depending on market conditions; and through purchases made in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Ecolab last increased its Stock Repurchase program in October 2006.
 
A copy of the News Release issued by Ecolab in connection with this report under Item 8.01 is attached as Exhibit (99) and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01
                                                
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
           
Exhibits.
 
(3)
                                 
Ecolab Inc. By-Laws, as amended through February 26, 2010.
 
(10)
                           
Ecolab Inc. Change in Control Severance Compensation Policy, as amended and restated effective February 26, 2010.
 
(99)
                           
Ecolab Inc. News Release dated February 26, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3
 
Section 1.  Registered Office
.  The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware.  The name of the resident agent in charge thereof shall be The Corporation Trust Company.
 
Section 2.  Other Offices
.  The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
 
Section 1.  Place of Meetings
.  Meetings of stockholders may be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors or the officer calling the same shall designate.
 
Section 2.  Annual Meeting
.  An annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors by written ballot and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held at such time and on such day of each year as shall be designated by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary.
 
Section 3.  Notice of Stockholder Nominations of Directors
.  Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized Committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 3 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.
 
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
 
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) in the case of an Annual Meeting, not less than one hundred twenty (120) days nor more than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such an anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10
provided, however
th
) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs; and (b) in the case of a Special Meeting called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which notice of the date of the Special Meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the Special Meeting was made, whichever first occurs.  In no event shall the public disclosure of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director and as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below) (i) the name, age, business address, residence address and record address of such person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such person, (iv) any information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,  (v) the nominee holder for, and number of, shares owned beneficially but not of record by such person, (vi) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options or borrowed or loaned shares) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to or manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such person with respect to any share of stock of the Corporation, (vii) to the extent known by the stockholder giving the notice, the name and address of any other stockholder supporting the nominee for election or reelection as a director on the date of such stockholder's notice, (viii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between or among such persons pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by the stockholder and (ix) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice.  Any ownership information shall be supplemented by the stockholder giving the notice not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the
 
meeting as of the record date.  Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
 
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.  If the Chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
Notwithstanding anything in the third paragraph of this Section 3 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public disclosure by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which such public disclosure is first made by the Corporation.
 
Section 4.  Notice of Stockholder Proposals of Business
.  No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either: (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 4 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 4.
 
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
 
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) days nor more than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10
provided, however
th
) day
following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.  In no event shall the public disclosure of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and as to the stockholder giving the notice and any Stockholder Associated Person (i) the name and record address of such person, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such person, (iii) the nominee holder for, and number of, shares owned beneficially but not of record by such person, (iv) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options or borrowed or loaned shares) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to or manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such person with respect to any share of stock of the Corporation, (v) to the extent known by the stockholder giving the notice, the name and address of any other stockholder supporting the proposal of other business on the date of such stockholder's notice, (vi) a description of all arrangements or understandings between or among such persons in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest in such business and (vii) a representation that the stockholder giving the notice intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.  Any ownership information shall be supplemented by the stockholder giving the notice not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting as of the record date.
 
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4; , that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 4 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business.  If the Chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided, however
 
Section 5.  Definitions
.  For purposes of Sections 3 and 4 of Article II of these By-Laws:
 
"Public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act."
 
"Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder shall mean (i) any person acting in concert, directly or indirectly, with such stockholder and (ii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person.
 
Section 6.  Special Meetings
.
 
(a)
                                 
Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called at any time by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board, and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary at the written request of the majority of the Board of Directors or at the written request, in accordance with this Section 6, of stockholders owning capital stock having twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the entire issued and outstanding capital stock of the Corporation.  Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting.  No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the stockholders except that stated in the notice of the meeting.
 
(b)
                                
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to demand a special meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date to determine the stockholders entitled to make such a demand (the "Demand Record Date"). The Demand Record Date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the Demand Record Date is adopted by the Board of Directors and shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the Demand Record Date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have stockholders demand a special meeting shall, by sending written notice to the Secretary of the Corporation by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, request the Board of Directors to fix a Demand Record Date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which a valid request to fix a Demand Record Date is received, adopt a resolution fixing the Demand Record Date and shall make a public announcement of such Demand Record Date. If no Demand Record Date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within ten (10) days after the date on which such request is received by the Secretary, the Demand Record Date shall be the tenth (10
th
) day after the first date on which a valid written request to set a Demand Record Date is received by the Secretary. To be valid, such written request shall set forth the purpose or purposes for which the special meeting is to be held, shall be signed by one or more stockholders of record (or their duly authorized proxies or other representatives), shall bear the date of signature of each such stockholder (or proxy or other representative) and shall set forth all information about each such stockholder and about the beneficial owner or owners, if any, on whose behalf the request is made that would be required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice described in Section 3 of Article II of these By-Laws.
 
(c)
                                 
In order for a stockholder or stockholders to demand a special meeting, a written demand or demands for a special meeting by the holders of record as of the
(d)
                                
Demand Record Date of not less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the entire issued and outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on the matter proposed to be considered at the special meeting must be delivered to the Corporation. To be valid, each written demand by a stockholder for a special meeting shall set forth the specific purpose or purposes for which the special meeting is to be held (which purpose or purposes shall be limited to the purpose or purposes set forth in the written request to set a Demand Record Date received by the Corporation pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 6), shall be signed by one or more persons who as of the Demand Record Date are stockholders of record (or their duly authorized proxies or other representatives), shall bear the date of signature of each such stockholder (or proxy or other representative), shall set forth the name and address, as they appear in the Corporation's books, of each stockholder signing such demand and the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned of record and beneficially by each such stockholder, shall be sent to the Secretary by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be received by the Secretary within sixty (60) days after the Demand Record Date.
 
(e)
                                 
The Corporation shall not be required to call a special meeting upon stockholder demand unless, in addition to the documents required by paragraph (c) of this Section 6, the Secretary receives a written agreement signed by each Soliciting Stockholder (as defined below), pursuant to which each Soliciting Stockholder, jointly and severally, agrees to pay the Corporation's costs of holding the special meeting, including the costs of preparing and mailing proxy materials for the Corporation's own solicitation, provided that if each of the resolutions introduced by any Soliciting Stockholder at such meeting is adopted, and each of the individuals nominated by or on behalf of any Soliciting Stockholder for election as a director at such meeting is elected, then the Soliciting Stockholders shall not be required to pay such costs. For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
(i)
                          
"Affiliate" of any Person (as defined herein) shall mean any Person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such first Person.
 
(ii)
                       
"Participant" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Instruction 3 of Item 4 of Schedule 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
 
(iii)
                    
"Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity.
 
(iv)
                   
"Proxy" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 14a-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
 
(v)
                      
"Solicitation" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 14a-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
 
(vi)
                   
"Soliciting Stockholder" shall mean, with respect to any special meeting demanded by a stockholder or stockholders, any of the following Persons: (A) if the number of stockholders signing the demand or demands of meeting delivered to the corporation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 6 is 10 or fewer, each stockholder signing any such demand; (B) if the number of stockholders signing the demand or demands of meeting delivered to the corporation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 6 is more than 10, each Person who either (x) was a Participant in any Solicitation of such demand or demands or (y) at the time of the delivery to the Corporation of the documents described in paragraph (c) of this Section 6 had engaged or intended to engage in any Solicitation of Proxies for use at such special meeting (other than a Solicitation of Proxies on behalf of the Corporation); or (C) any Affiliate of a Soliciting Stockholder, if a majority of the directors then in office determine, reasonably and in good faith, that such Affiliate should be required to sign the written notice described in paragraph (c) of this Section 6 and/or the written agreement described in this paragraph (d) in order to prevent the purposes of this Section 6 from being evaded.
 
(f)
                                   
Except as provided in the following sentence, any special meeting shall be held at such hour and day as may be designated by whichever of the Chairman of the Board, President or Secretary shall have called such meeting. In the case of any special meeting called by the Chairman of the Board, President or Secretary upon the demand of stockholders (a "Demand Special Meeting"), such meeting shall be held at such hour and day as may be designated by the Chairman of the Board, President or Secretary; provided, however, that the date of any Demand Special Meeting shall be not more than sixty (60) days after the Record Date (determined pursuant to Section 5 of Article VI of these By-Laws); and provided further that in the event that the directors then in office fail to designate an hour and date for a Demand Special Meeting within ten (10) days after the date that valid written demands for such meeting by the holders of record as of the Demand Record Date of shares representing not less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the entire issued and outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on the matter proposed to be considered at the special meeting are delivered to the Corporation (the "Delivery Date"), then such meeting shall be held at 2:00 P.M. Central Time on the 90th day after the Delivery Date or, if such 90th day is not a Business Day (as defined below), on the first preceding Business Day. In fixing a meeting date for any special meeting, the Chairman of the Board, President or Secretary may consider such factors as he deems relevant within the good faith exercise of his business judgment, including, without limitation, the nature of the action proposed to be taken, the facts and circumstances surrounding any demand for such meeting, and any plan of the Board of Directors to call an annual meeting or a special meeting for the conduct of related business.
 
(g)
                                
The Corporation may engage independent inspectors of elections to act as an agent of the Corporation for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial
review of the validity of any purported written demand or demands for a special meeting received by the Secretary. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no purported demand shall be deemed to have been delivered to the Corporation until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the valid demands received by the Secretary represent not less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the entire issued and outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on the matter proposed to be considered at the special meeting. Nothing contained in this paragraph (f) shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any demand, whether during or after such five (5) Business Day period, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto).
 
(h)
                                
For purposes of these By-Laws, "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of Minnesota are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
(i)
                                    
Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, if the Board of Directors shall determine that any request to fix a Demand Record Date or demand a special meeting was not properly made in accordance with this Section 6, or the stockholder or stockholders seeking to take such action do not otherwise comply with this Section 6, then the Board of Directors shall not be required to fix a Demand Record Date or call a special meeting.
 
Section 7.  Notice of Meetings
.  Written notice stating the place, date and hour of each annual and special meeting of the stockholders and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes thereof, shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, unless otherwise required by applicable law.  If mailed, notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation.  Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy and shall not, at the beginning of such meeting, object to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, or who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a signed waiver of notice.
 
Section 8.  Quorum
.  At all meetings of the stockholders, the holders of a majority of the shares of stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall be requisite to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by statute or in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum. In the absence of a quorum, the holders of a majority of the shares of stock present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote may adjourn the meeting until the requisite amount of stock shall be present.
 
Section 9.  Organization and Order of Business
.  At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or in his absence, the President, or in his absence any other person selected by the Board of Directors, shall act as Chairman of the meeting. The Secretary, or in his absence an Assistant Secretary, or any person appointed by the Chairman of the meeting, shall act as Secretary of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of any meeting of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate.  Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and the authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts, as in the judgment of such Chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.  Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following:  (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the Chairman of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants
 
Section 10.  Voting
.  Except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, at each meeting of the stockholders each stockholder having the right to vote thereat shall be entitled to (i) one vote for each share of common stock of the Corporation standing in his name on the record of stockholders of the Corporation, and (ii) such voting rights, if any, as are provided in the applicable Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights with respect to any series of preferred stock of the Corporation standing in his name on the record of stockholders of the Corporation, in all such instances on the date fixed by the Board of Directors as the record date for the determination of the stockholders who shall be entitled to notice of and vote at such meeting; or if no record date shall have been fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice thereof shall be given.  Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for him by a proxy signed or otherwise authorized in accordance with Section 212 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware by such stockholder or his attorney-in-fact.  No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of three (3) years from the date thereof, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.  Except as otherwise provided by statute, these By-Laws or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any corporate action to be taken by vote of the stockholders shall be authorized by a majority of the total votes cast at a meeting of stockholders by the holders of shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on such action.  Unless required by statute, or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any question other than elections need not be by written ballot.  On a vote by written ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder, his
 
attorney-in-fact, or his proxy if there be such proxy, and shall state the stockholder's name and the number of shares voted.
 
Section 11.  Stockholder List
.  The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.  This list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
 
Section 12.  Inspectors
.  The Board of Directors may, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint or provide for the appointment of one or more inspectors to act at such meeting or any adjournments thereof.  If the inspector or inspectors shall not be appointed, or if any of them shall fail to appear or act, the Chairman of the meeting may, and on the request of any stockholder entitled to vote thereat shall, appoint one or more inspectors.  Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.  On request of the Chairman of the meeting or any stockholder entitled to vote thereat, the inspectors shall make a report in writing of any challenge, request or matter determined by them and shall execute a certificate of any fact found by them.  No director or candidate for the office of director shall act as inspector of any election of directors.  Inspectors need not be stockholders of the Corporation.
 
Section 13.  Adjourned Meetings
.  A meeting of stockholders may be adjourned to another time and to another place by either the chairman of the meeting or by the stockholders and proxies present.  When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice of such adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place to which the meeting shall be adjourned are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting, if a quorum is present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
Section 14.  Consent of Stockholders
.
 
(a)
                                 
Unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock of the Corporation having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or
take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.  Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing.
 
(b)
                                
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date (a "Consent Record Date"). The Consent Record Date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the Consent Record Date is adopted by the Board of Directors and shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the Consent Record Date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall, by sending written notice to the Secretary of the Corporation by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, at the Corporation's principal executive offices, request the Board of Directors to fix a Consent Record Date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which a valid request to fix a Consent Record Date is received, adopt a resolution fixing the Consent Record Date and shall make a public announcement of such Consent Record Date. If no Consent Record Date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within ten (10) days after the date on which such request is received by the Secretary, the Consent Record Date shall be the tenth (10
th
) day after the first date on which a valid written request to set a Consent Record Date is received by the Secretary. To be valid, such written request shall set forth the purpose or purposes for which the written consent is sought to be used, shall be signed by one or more stockholders of record (or their duly authorized proxies or other representatives), shall bear the date of signature of each such stockholder (or proxy or other representative) and shall set forth all information about each such stockholder and about the beneficial owner or owners, if any, on whose behalf the request is made that would be required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice described in Section 3 of Article II of these By-Laws.
 
(c)
                                 
Every written consent shall be signed by one or more persons who as of the Consent Record Date are stockholders of record on the Consent Record Date (or their duly authorized proxies or other representatives), shall bear the date of signature of each such stockholder (or proxy or other representative), and shall set forth the name and address, as they appear in the Corporation's books, of each stockholder signing such consent and the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned of record and beneficially by each such stockholder and shall be sent to the Secretary by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. No written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty (60) days of the date the earliest dated written consent was received in accordance with this paragraph (c) of this Section 14, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation.
 
(d)
                                
In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by paragraph (c) of this Section 14, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to
take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation may engage independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph (d) of Section 14 shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
 
(e)
                                 
Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, no action may be taken by the stockholders by written consent except in accordance with this Section 14. If the Board of Directors shall determine that any request to fix a Consent Record Date or to take stockholder action by written consent was not properly made in accordance with this Section 14, or the stockholder or stockholders seeking to take such action do not otherwise comply with this Section 14, then the Board of Directors shall not be required to fix a Consent Record Date and any such purported action by written consent shall be null and void to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
 
Section 1.  General Powers
.  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may exercise all such authority and powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
 
Section 2.  Number and Election of Directors.  The number of directors of the Corporation which shall constitute the entire Board of Directors shall be such number as is fixed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  Directors shall be elected and shall hold office in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation.
 
Section 3.  Required Vote for Directors  A nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors by the vote of the majority of the votes cast at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present; , that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which
.
provided, however
 
(i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for directors set forth in Article II, Section 3, of these By-Laws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth (10
th
) day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders.  For purposes of this By-Law, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of shares voted "for" a nominee exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the number of votes cast with respect to such nominee.  Votes cast with respect to a nominee shall include votes to withhold authority and exclude abstentions with respect to such nominee.
 
Section 4.  Place of Meeting
.  The Board of Directors may hold meetings at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors or the officer calling the meeting may from time to time determine.
 
Section 5.  Organization Meeting
.  Promptly following the adjournment of the annual meeting of the stockholders, and without other notice than this By-Law, the newly constituted Board of Directors shall meet for the purpose of organization, the election of officers, and the transaction of other business, with power to adjourn and re-adjourn.
 
Section 6.  Meetings
.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such time and place as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or any two (2) or more Directors.
 
Section 7.  Notice of Meetings
.  Notice of regular meetings of the Board of Directors need not be given except as otherwise required by statute or these By-Laws.  Notice of the place, date and time of the holding of each special meeting of the Board of Directors, and the purpose or purposes thereof, shall be delivered to each director either personally or by mail, telephone, telegraph, cable, or similar means, three (3) days before the day on which such meeting is to be held, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting deem appropriate in the circumstances.  Such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time it is dispatched by depositing it in the United States mail with postage prepaid, by transmission by telephone, telegraph or cable, or by personal delivery.  Notice of any such meeting need not be given to any director who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a signed waiver of notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting, prior to or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him.
 
Section 8.  Quorum and Manner of Acting
.  Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; provided, however, that if by reason of catastrophe or emergency, a majority of the entire Board is not available or capable of acting, one third (1/3) of the entire Board of Directors, but in any event not less than two (2) directors, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors.  The act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum, as herein provided, shall be the act of the Board of Directors except as may
be otherwise specifically provided by statute, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.  In the absence of a quorum at any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of the directors present thereat, or if no director be present, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, may adjourn such meeting to another time and place until the quorum is had.  Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given.  At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
 
Section 9.  Organization and Order of Business
.  At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or in his absence the President, or in his absence, a member of the Board of Directors selected by the directors in attendance, shall act as Chairman of the meeting.  The Secretary, or in his absence, an Assistant Secretary, or any person appointed by the Chairman of the meeting, shall act as Secretary of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  The order of business at all meetings of the directors shall be as determined by the Chairman of the meeting.
 
Section 10.  Action Without Meeting
.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
 
Section 11.  Conference Telephone
.  Members of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting in this manner shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
 
Section 12.  Committees
.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of three (3) or more of the directors of the Corporation.  The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.  Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation which the Board of Directors may lawfully delegate, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.  Meetings of committees may be called by the committee chairman, if any, or as provided in Section 6 of this Article III.  Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner set forth in Section 7 of this Article III.  Notice of any such meeting need not be given to any committee member who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a signed waiver of notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting prior to or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him.  A notice or waiver of notice of any regular or special meeting of any committee need not state the purposes of such meeting.  A majority of any committee may determine its action, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide.  Each committee shall keep written minutes of its formal proceedings and shall report such
proceedings to the Board.  All such proceedings shall be subject to revision or alteration by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that third parties shall not be prejudiced by such revision or alteration.  The Board of Directors shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership, duties or authority of, or to dissolve any such committee.
 
Section 13.  Resignations
.  Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving notice by writing or by electronic transmission of his resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary.  Such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice, or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
Section 14.  Removal
.  Except as otherwise required by applicable law, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any director may be removed at any time, at a special meeting of the stockholders called and held for the purpose, but, for so long as the Board of Directors is classified, only for cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; and the vacancy in the Board caused by any such removal shall be filled as the Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides.
 
Section 15.  Vacancies
.  Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may only be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, in accordance with the Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
 
Section 16.  Compensation
.  The Board of Directors shall have authority to fix the compensation, including fees and reimbursement of expenses, of directors for services to the Corporation in any capacity and no such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
 
Section 1.  Number and Qualification
.  The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors.  The officers shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Chief Financial Officer, a General Counsel, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and a Controller.  The Board of Directors may also elect a Vice Chairman of the Board, one or more Sector Presidents and one or more Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers, and the Board of Directors may designate any Vice President as an Executive Vice President, a Senior Vice President or a Group Vice President.  The Board of Directors may also designate from such officers (i) a Chief Executive Officer who shall have general supervision and authority over the business and affairs of the Corporation subject to the control of the Board of Directors, (ii) a Chief Operating Officer who shall have general supervision and authority
 
over the operations of the Corporation subject to the control of the Chief Executive Officer, if that designation has been made, and subject to the control of the Board of Directors, or (iii) both a Chief Executive Officer and a Chief Operating Officer.  The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors, but no other officer need be a director.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
 
Section 2.  Election and Term
.  The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders or as soon thereafter as is conveniently possible.  Officers may also be elected from time to time at any other meeting of the Board of Directors to fill vacancies and otherwise.  Each officer, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article IV, shall continue in office until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal.
 
Section 3.  Other Officers and Agents
.  The Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, or in his absence or disability, the President, may appoint such other officers and agents, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as are provided for in these By-Laws, or as the Board of Directors or Chairman of the Board, or the President, may from time to time determine.
 
Section 4.  Resignation
.  Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation.  Such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice, or at any later time specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
Section 5.  Removal
.  Any officer or agent may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time by the vote of the majority of the whole Board of Directors.  Any subordinate officer or agent appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article IV may be removed, either with or without cause, by a vote of the majority of the whole Board of Directors or, except in the case of an officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board of Directors, by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
 
Section 6.  Vacancies
.  A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term in the manner prescribed in these By-Laws for the regular election or appointment to such office.
 
Section 7.  Compensation
.  The compensation of the officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors or by such officers or a committee of the Board of Directors to which the Board of Directors has delegated such authority.  An officer of the Corporation shall not be prevented from receiving compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the Corporation, but any such officer who shall also be a director shall not have any vote in the determination of the amount of compensation paid to him.
Section 8.  Chairman of the Board
.  The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence, the President, or in the President's absence, any other Person selected by the Board of Directors, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors.  He shall perform such duties with such authority as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 9.  President
.  The President shall be responsible to the Chief Executive Officer and shall perform such duties with such authority as may be prescribed in these By-Laws and from time to time by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
 
Section 10.  Vice Presidents
.  Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board and as shall from time to time be assigned to him by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
 
Section 11.  Secretary
.  The Secretary shall give or cause to be given all required notices of meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors, shall record all of the proceedings and act as custodian of the minutes of all such meetings, shall have charge of the corporate seal and the corporate minute books, and shall make such reports and perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President.  The Secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary.  The Assistant Secretaries, or any of them, shall perform such of the duties of the Secretary as may from time to time be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
 
Section 12.  Treasurer
.  The Treasurer shall have custody of all moneys and securities of the Corporation, shall have responsibility for disbursement of the funds of the Corporation, shall make payment of the just demands on the Corporation, shall invest surplus cash of the Corporation and manage its investment portfolio under the direction of the Board of Directors, and shall render to the Board of Directors an account of all transactions of the Corporation and of the financial condition of the Corporation as may be required of him.  The Treasurer shall also perform such other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or by the Chief Financial Officer.  The Assistant Treasurers, or any of them, shall perform such of the duties of the Treasurer as may from time to time be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of his disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer.
Section 13.  Controller
.  The Controller shall provide and maintain a system of accounts and accounting records of the Corporation, shall provide and administer a system of internal financial controls, and shall present such financial statements to the Board of Directors as may be required.  The Controller shall also perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or by the Chief Financial Officer.  The Assistant Controllers, or any of them, shall perform such of the duties of the Controller as may from time to time be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Controller, and in the absence of the Controller or in the event of his disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Controller, and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Controller.
 
Section 1.  Right to Indemnification
.  Every person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or, while a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or for its benefit as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, or as its representative in a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including any employee benefit plan, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent legally permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware in the manner prescribed therein, from time to time, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.  Similar indemnification shall be provided by the Corporation to an employee of the Corporation or subsidiary of the Corporation who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, by reason of the fact that he is or was serving for the benefit of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation or as the Corporation's representative in a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including any employee benefit plan.
 
Section 2.  Other Indemnification
.  The rights of indemnification conferred by this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such directors, officers, employees or agents may have or hereafter acquire and, without limiting the generality of such statement, they shall be entitled to their respective rights of indemnification under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders, provision of law or otherwise, as well as their rights under this Article.
Section 1.  Shares of Stock
.  The shares of stock in the Corporation shall be represented by a certificate, unless and until the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopts a resolution permitting shares to be uncertificated.  Notwithstanding the adoption of any such resolution providing for uncertificated shares, every holder of stock of the Corporation theretofore represented by certificates and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a numbered certificate in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors, certifying the number of shares owned by him and signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which seal may be a facsimile, engraved or printed).  Any or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
 
Section 2.  Transfer of Stock
.  Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by applicable law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made on the stock records of the Corporation, and in the case of certificated shares of stock, only upon authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by his attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or with a transfer agent or transfer clerk, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power with reasonable assurances given that such endorsement is genuine and that all taxes thereon have been paid; or, in the case of uncertificated shares of stock, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered holder of the shares or by his attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or with the transfer agent or transfer clerk, and reasonable assurances that all taxes thereon have been paid and compliance with appropriate procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form; provided, however, that such surrender and endorsement, compliance or payment of taxes shall not be required in any case in which the authorized officers of the Corporation shall determine to waive such requirement.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person in whose name any share or shares stand on the record of stockholders as the owner of such share or shares for all purposes, including, without limitation, the rights to receive dividends or other distributions, and to vote as such owner, and the Corporation may hold any such stockholder or record liable for calls and assessments, and the Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or legal claim to or interest in any such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof.
Section 3.  Lost Certificates
.  The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, or which shall have been mutilated, and the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond, limited or unlimited, in such sum and in such form and with such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors in its absolute discretion shall determine is sufficient to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any such certificate, or the issuance of a new certificate.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Board of Directors in its absolute discretion may refuse to issue any such new certificate except pursuant to legal proceedings under the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
Section 4.  Rules and Regulations
.  The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with these By-Laws, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the laws of the State of Delaware, as it may deem expedient concerning the issuance, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of stock of the Corporation.  The Board of Directors may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers of the Corporation to appoint, one or more independent transfer agents and one or more independent registrars, and may require all certificates for shares of stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.
 
Section 5.  Record Date
.  In order to determine the stockholders entitled to notice and to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or  entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of and to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors shall elect to fix a record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
Section 1.  Contracts and Other Instruments
.  The Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel, any Sector President, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President and any Senior Vice President may enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of the Corporation and on behalf of the Corporation except as in these By-Laws or by resolution otherwise provided.  The Board of Directors, except as in these By-Laws otherwise provided, may
authorize any other officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of the Corporation and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances, and unless so authorized by the Board of Directors, no such other officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or to any amount.
 
Section 2.  Loans
.  No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no negotiable paper shall be issued in its name unless, and on such terms as shall be, authorized by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 3.  Disbursements
.  All checks, drafts, demands for money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors or by any officer or officers or person or persons authorized by the Board of Directors to make such designations.  Facsimile signatures may be authorized in any such case where authorized by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 4.  Deposits
.  All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation under such conditions and in such banks or other depositories as the Board of Directors may designate, or as may be designated by any officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation to whom such power of designation may from time to time be delegated by the Board of Directors.  For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the Corporation, checks, drafts, and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Corporation may be endorsed, assigned and delivered by any officer or agent of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may determine by resolution.
 
Section 5.  Voting Securities of Other Corporations
.  Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any person either may designate, shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation, in person or by proxy, to attend and to act and to vote at any meeting of the security holders of any other corporation in which this Corporation may hold securities, and at any such meeting he or his proxy shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities and which as the owner thereof the Corporation might have possessed and exercised if present.  The Board of Directors, by resolution from time to time, may confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
 
Section 6.
  .  The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle, and which shall bear the words and figures:
Corporate Seal
Section 7.  Fiscal Year
.  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as determined by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 8.  Gender
.  Whenever used in these By-Laws, words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender.
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may from time to time, by vote of a majority of its members, alter, amend or rescind all or any of these By-Laws as permitted, by law, subject to the power of the stockholders to change or repeal such By-Laws.

Exhibit 10
 
ECOLAB INC.
 
CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE COMPENSATION POLICY
 
ARTICLE I  - INTRODUCTION
 
Section 1.1
                                     
Background
.  The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Ecolab Inc. (the "Company") has considered the effect a Change in Control of the Company may have on certain Executives of the Company.  The Board recognizes and understands the concern such Executives have for their careers and their personal financial security in the event of a Change in Control of the Company.  As a result, absent appropriate assurances, such Executives are likely to seek more secure career opportunities elsewhere if a Change in Control of the Company is perceived to be a real possibility, or if a Change in Control transaction is proposed or threatened.
 
Section 1.2
                                     
Purpose
.  This Policy is designed to encourage Executives to remain employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries notwithstanding the time pressure and financial uncertainty which may result from a proposed or threatened Change in Control transaction and notwithstanding the outcome of any such proposed transaction, to enable Executives to make career decisions and to assure fair treatment of such Executives in the event of a Change in Control of the Company.
 
ARTICLE II  - ESTABLISHMENT OF THE POLICY
 
Section 2.1
                                     
Establishment of Policy
.  As of February 22, 2002, the Company established this severance compensation Policy known as the "Change in Control Severance Compensation Policy" (the "Policy").  The Company amended and restated the Policy effective as of the Effective Date.  The Company is amending and restating the Policy pursuant to this document effective as of the Restatement Date.
 
Section 2.2
                                     
Applicability of Policy
.  The benefits provided by this Policy shall be available to all Executives who, at or after the Effective Date, meet the eligibility requirements of Article IV hereof.
 
Section 2.3
                                     
Contractual Right to Benefits
.  Subject to the provisions of Article VIII hereof, this Policy establishes and vests in each Participant a contractual right to the benefits to which he or she is entitled hereunder, enforceable by the Participant against the Company on the terms and subject to the conditions hereof.
 
ARTICLE III  - DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
 
Section 3.1
                                     
Definitions
.  The following terms shall have the following meanings when used in this Policy with initial capital letters:
 
(a)
                                 
"" of a Participant means the Participant's annual base salary rate as in effect on the Termination Date from the Participant's Employer(s); provided, however, that any reductions in Base Pay following the date of the Change in Control will not be taken into account when determining Base Pay hereunder.
Base Pay
 
(b)
                                
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
(c)
                                 
"" of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred if the events set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:
Change in Control
 
(i)
                                    
any "person" as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan of the Company or any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), is or becomes, including pursuant to a tender or exchange offer for shares of Common Stock pursuant to which purchases are made, the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; provided, however, that the provisions of this subparagraph (i) shall not be applicable to a transaction in which a corporation becomes the owner of all the Company's outstanding securities in a transaction that would not be a Change in Control under subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3.1(c); or
 
(ii)
                                 
during any twenty-four consecutive calendar months, individuals who constitute the Board on the first day of such period or any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest including, but not limited to, a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who were either directors on the first day of such period, or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended, shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof; or
 
(iii)
                              
there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, and in which no "person" (as defined under Subsection (i) above) acquires 50% or more of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
 
(iv)
                             
there is consummated a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated the sale or disposition by the Company of all
 
or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.
 
(d)
                                
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(e)
                                 
"" means Ecolab Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto as provided in Section 7.1 hereof.
Company
 
(f)
                                   
"" means January 1, 2005.
Effective Date
 
(g)
                                
"" means the Company, any Subsidiary or any "affiliated organization" which employs an Executive.  For purposes of this Policy, an "affiliated organization" is the Company and (i) any corporation that is a member of a controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Code Section 1563(a) without regard to Code Sections 1563(a)(4) and 1563(e)(3)(C) that includes the Company, (ii) any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is controlled (within the meaning of Code Section 414(c)) by the Company, (iii) any member of an "affiliated service group" (within the meaning of Code Section 414(m) of which the Company is a member or (iv) any other organization that, together with the Company, is treated as a single employer pursuant to Code Section 414(o) or the regulations thereunder; provided that the provisions of Code Section 1563(a) shall be applied by substituting the phrase "more than 50 percent" for the phrase "at least 80 percent" wherever it appears in such Code Section.
Employer
 
(h)
                                
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
(i)
                                    
"" means any person who is designated as an officer of the Company by the Board and who is employed by an Employer as a salaried employee on a substantially full-time basis, other than a person who is designated solely as an assistant officer.
Executive
 
(j)
                                    
"" means, without the express written consent of the Participant:
Good Reason
 
(i)
                                    
the assignment to the Participant of any duties inconsistent in any substantial respect with the Participant's position, authority or responsibilities as in effect during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Change in Control which assignment results in a substantial diminution in such position, authority or responsibilities or any other substantial adverse change in such position (including titles), authority or responsibilities, excluding an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Employer as set forth below.
 
(ii)
                                 
any failure by the Employer to furnish the Participant with compensation and benefits at a level substantially equal to or exceeding those received by the Participant from the Employer during the 90-day period preceding the Change in Control, other than (A) an insubstantial and inadvertent failure remedied by the Employer as set forth below, (B) a reduction in compensation which is applied to
 
all non-union employees of the Employer in the same dollar amount or percentage or (C) a reduction or modification of any employee benefit program covering substantially all of the employees of the Employer, which reduction or modification generally applies to all employees covered under such program; or
 
(iii)
                              
the Employer's requiring the Participant to be based or to perform services at any office or location that is in excess of 50 miles from the principal location of the Participant's work during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Change in Control, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the Participant's responsibilities.
 
Before a termination by the Participant under this Section 3.1(j) will constitute termination for Good Reason, the Participant must give the Company a Notice of Termination within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the event that constitutes Good Reason.  Failure to provide such Notice of Termination within such 30-day period shall be conclusive proof that the Participant shall not have Good Reason to terminate employment.
 
For purposes of this Section 3.1(j), Good Reason shall exist only if the Employer fails to remedy the event or events constituting Good Reason within 30 calendar days after receipt of the Notice of Termination from the Participant.  If the Participant determines that Good Reason for termination exists and timely files a Notice of Termination, such determination shall be presumed to be true and the Company will have the burden of proving that Good Reason does not exist.
 
(k)
                                 
"" means the target bonus as notified to the Participant for the year in which the Termination Date occurs under the Management Incentive Plan or the Management Performance Incentive Plan, as applicable to the Participant, or if such Plan or Plans are no longer in effect, the annual bonus, incentive or other payment of compensation in addition to Base Pay, made or to be made in regard to services rendered in any year or other annual measurement period pursuant to any bonus, incentive, performance, or similar agreement, policy, Policy, program or arrangement of the Employer or any successor thereto.
Incentive Pay
 
(l)
                                    
"" means without the written consent of the Company, the Participant (i) participates in dishonesty, fraud, misrepresentation, embezzlement or deliberate injury or attempted injury, in each case related to the Company, an Employer or a Subsidiary, (ii) commits any unlawful or criminal activity of a serious nature, (iii) commits any intentional and deliberate breach of a duty or duties that, individually or in the aggregate, are material in relation to the Participant's overall duties or (iv) materially breaches any confidentiality or noncompete agreement entered into with the Company or an Employer.  The Company shall have the burden of proving that Just Cause exists.
Just Cause
 
For purposes of this Policy, the Participant shall not be deemed to have been terminated for "Just Cause" hereunder unless (A) the Participant receives a Notice of Termination setting forth the grounds for the termination at least 30 calendar days prior to the specified Termination Date, (B) if requested by the Participant, the Participant (and/or the
 
Participant's counsel or other representative) is granted a hearing before the full Board and (C) a majority of the members of the full Board determine that the Participant violated one or more of the provisions of the definition of "Just Cause" set forth above.
 
(m)
                              
"" means (i) a written notice of termination by the Company to the Executive or (ii) a written notice of termination for Good Reason by the Executive to the Company, in either case, setting forth in reasonable detail the specific reason for termination and the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of employment under the provision indicated.
Notice of Termination
 
(n)
                                
"" means an Executive who meets the eligibility requirements of Article IV hereof, other than an Executive who has entered into an employment, severance or other similar agreement with the Company (other than a stock option or restricted stock agreement or other form of participation document entered into pursuant to an Employer-sponsored plan which may incidentally refer to accelerated vesting or accelerated payment upon a change in control (as defined in such separate plan or document)) which becomes operative upon the occurrence of a change in control of the Company (as defined in such agreement).
Participant
 
(o)
                                
"" means this Change in Control Severance Compensation Policy.
Policy
 
(p)
                                
"" means the period of time commencing on the date of the first occurrence of a Change in Control and continuing until the second anniversary of the occurrence of the Change in Control.
Protection Period
 
(q)
                                
"" means February 26, 2010; provided, however, as it relates to the amendment and restatement of this Policy in a manner that adversely affects the rights of a Participant within the meaning of Section 8.2, if the Participant has not consented to this amendment and restatement, "Restatement Date" means March 1, 2012.
Restatement Date
 
(r)
                                   
"" means the payment of severance compensation as provided in Article V hereof.
Severance Payment
 
(s)
                                 
"" means any corporation or other legal entity a majority of the securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of which are owned by the Company or another Subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiary
 
(t)
                                   
"" means, (i) with respect to a termination by the Employer, the date on which the Participant's employment is terminated as stated in the Notice of Termination and (ii) with respect to a termination by the Participant for Good Reason, the date that is 15 calendar days following the Company's receipt of the Notice of Termination.
Termination Date
 
Section 3.2
                                     
Status of Policy/Applicable Law
.
 
(a)
                                 
This Policy is classified as a "payroll practice" under Department of Labor Regulation Section 2510.3-1(b) and, as such is not subject to the provisions of the
 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  The Policy will be interpreted and administered accordingly.
 
(b)
                                
This Policy shall be administered, construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Minnesota.
 
Section 3.3
                                     
Severability
.  If a provision of this Policy shall be held illegal or invalid, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Policy and this Policy shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
 
ARTICLE IV  - ELIGIBILITY
 
Section 4.1
                                     
Participation
.  Each person who is an Executive on the Effective Date shall be a Participant on the Effective Date.  Thereafter, each other person who becomes an Executive prior to both (a) a Change in Control and (b), unless specifically provided for by the Board at the time a Participant is elected as an Executive, the date a notice of termination of the Policy is provided under Section 8.1(a), shall automatically become a Participant on the day on which such person becomes an Executive.
 
Section 4.2
                                     
Duration of Participation
.  A Participant shall cease to be a Participant and shall have no rights hereunder, without further action, when he or she ceases to be an Executive, unless such Participant is then entitled to payment of a Severance Payment as provided in Section 5.1 hereof.  A Participant entitled to a Severance Payment shall remain a Participant in this Policy until the full amount of the Severance Payment has been paid to the Participant.
 
ARTICLE V  - SEVERANCE PAYMENTS
 
Section 5.1
                                     
Right to Severance Payment
.
 
(a)
                                 
Subject to Subsection (c) hereof, a Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Company a Severance Payment in the amount provided in Section 5.2 hereof if there has been a Change in Control and if, after a Change in Control and within the Protection Period, (i) the Participant's employment by an Employer shall be terminated by the Employer without Just Cause or (ii) the Participant shall terminate employment with an Employer for Good Reason.
 
(b)
                                
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Policy, any termination of employment of the Participant or removal of the Participant from the office or position in the Company that occurs prior to a Change in Control but which the Participant reasonably demonstrates occurred at the request of a third party who had taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change in Control shall be deemed to be a termination or removal of the Participant after a Change in Control for purposes of this Policy.
 
(c)
                                 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Policy, a Participant shall not be entitled to receive any Severance Payment hereunder unless, no later than by March 10 of the calendar year following the calendar year of the Participant's Termination Date (i) he or she has signed and returned to the Company a release in the
 
form prescribed by the Company and (ii) the applicable rescission period for such release has expired.
 
Section 5.2
                                   
Amount of Severance Payment
.
 
(a)
                                
Each Participant entitled to a Severance Payment under this Policy shall receive the following Severance Payment from the Company.
 
(i)
                                    
A lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to two times the sum of (A) the Participant's Base Pay plus (B) Incentive Pay; provided, however, that the amount of such cash payment determined pursuant to this Section 5.2(a)(i) shall be reduced by an amount equal to the aggregate amount of any other cash payments in the nature of severance payments paid or payable by the Company or the Employer or any Subsidiary pursuant to any agreement, policy, program, arrangement or requirement of statutory or common law (other than this Policy or cash payments received in lieu of stock incentives);
 
(ii)
                                 
A lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to (A) the Incentive Pay for the year in which the Termination Date occurs, pro rated to reflect time worked during the year in which the Termination Date occurs, days worked during the year divided by 365 days times the Incentive Pay expressed as a dollar amount) and (B) reduced by any amounts paid under the terms of the applicable incentive bonus Policy itself for the same period of time;
 
(iii)
                              
Reasonable fees for outplacement services, by a firm selected by the Company and at the expense of the Company, in an amount not in excess of 20% of Base Pay; provided, however, that all such fees shall be incurred by the Participant no later than the last day of the second calendar year, and all amounts under this paragraph (iii) shall be paid no later than the last day of the third calendar year, following the year in which the Participant's Termination Date occurs; and
 
(iv)
                             
Eligibility for continuation coverage pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code (or any successor provision thereto) under the Employer's medical, dental and other group health plans, or successor plans as in effect from time to time; provided, however, that (A) the Company shall reimburse the Participant, on a semi-annual basis, for any costs incurred in securing such continuation coverage that are in excess of the costs that would have been incurred by the Participant immediately prior to the Termination Date to obtain such coverage and (B) such reimbursements shall in no event continue beyond a period of eighteen (18) months following the Termination Date.
 
(b)
                                
Notwithstanding any provision of this Policy to the contrary, if any amount or benefit to be paid or provided under this Policy or any other plan or agreement between the Participant and an Employer would be an "Excess Parachute Payment," within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, but for the application of this sentence, then the payments and benefits to be paid or provided under
 
this Policy shall be reduced to the minimum extent necessary (but in no event to less than zero) so that no portion of any such payment or benefit, as so reduced, constitutes an Excess Parachute Payment; provided, however, that the foregoing reduction shall be made only if and to the extent that such reduction would result in an increase in the aggregate payment and benefits to be provided to the Participant, determined on an after-tax basis (taking into account the excise tax imposed pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, any tax imposed by any comparable provision of state law, and any applicable federal, state and local income taxes).  If requested by the Participant or the Employer, the determination of whether any reduction in such payments or benefits to be provided under this Policy or otherwise is required pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be made by the Company's independent accountants, at the expense of the Company, and the determination of the Company's independent accounts shall be final and binding on all persons.  The fact that the Participant's right to payments or benefits may be reduced by reason of the limitations contained in this Section 5.2(b) shall not of itself limit or otherwise affect any other rights of the Participant pursuant to this Policy.  In the event that any payment or benefit intended to be provided under this Policy or otherwise is required to be reduced pursuant to this Section, payment under this Policy shall be reduced before payments under any other arrangements are reduced and the Participant (in his or her sole discretion) shall be entitled to designate the payments and/or benefits under this Policy to be so reduced in order to give effect to this Section.  The Employer shall provide the Participant with all information reasonably requested by the Participant to permit the Participant to make such designation.  In the event that the Participant fails to make such designation within ten business days of receiving such information, the Employer may effect such reduction in any manner it deems appropriate.
 
(c)
                                 
The Participant shall not be required to mitigate damages or the amount of his or her Severance Payment by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of such payment be reduced by any compensation earned by the Participant as a result of employment after the termination of his or her employment by an Employer.
 
Section 5.3
                                   
Time of Severance Payment
.  The Severance Payment to which a Participant is entitled under Section 5.2(a)(i) and (ii) shall be paid to the Participant by the Company in cash and in full, not later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant's Termination Date occurs, subject to Section 5.1(c).  If such a Participant should die before all amounts payable to him have been paid, such unpaid amounts shall be paid to the Participant's spouse, if living, otherwise to the personal representative of the Participant's estate.
 
Section 5.4
                                   
Liability for Payment
.  The Company shall be solely liable for and shall pay the Severance Payments (or cause the Severance Payments to be paid) to the Executive.
 
ARTICLE VI  - OTHER RIGHTS AND BENEFITS NOT AFFECTED
 
Section 6.1
                                   
Other Benefits
.  Except as provided in Section 5.2(b), neither the provisions of this Policy nor the Severance Payment provided for hereunder shall reduce or increase any amounts otherwise payable, or in any other way affect a Participant's rights as an employee of an Employer, whether existing now or hereafter, under any benefit, incentive, retirement, stock option, stock bonus, stock purchase or employment agreement, policy (other than this Policy),
 
program or arrangement (collectively, the "Other Plans"), except to the extent specifically provided under such Other Plans.
 
Section 6.2
                                   
Certain Limitations
.  This Policy does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on any Participant, the Company or any other Employer any obligation to retain any Participant as an employee or in any other capacity, to change or not change the status, terms or conditions of any Participant's employment, or to change or not change the Employer's policies regarding termination of employment.
 
ARTICLE VII  - SUCCESSORS SECTION
 
Section 7.1
                                   
Successors
.  Without limiting the obligations of any person or entity under applicable law, the Company shall require any successor or assignee, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all the business or assets of the Company, expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Policy, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession or assignment had taken place.  In such event, the term "Company," as used in this Policy, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by the terms and provisions of this Policy.
 
ARTICLE VIII  - DURATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
 
Section 8.1
                                   
Duration/Termination
.
 
(a)
                                
This Policy will terminate as to all Participants: (i) if a Change in Control has not occurred, the date that is 2 years following the giving of notice to each Executive who is a Participant on the date of the notice that the Board has determined (by resolution adopted by a majority of the members of the Board) that the Policy will terminate; and (ii) if a Change in Control has occurred, the expiration of the Protection Period.
 
(b)
                                
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Change in Control occurs, this Policy shall continue in full force and effect, and shall not terminate or expire until after all Participants who were Participants on the date of the Change in Control who became entitled to a Severance Payment hereunder shall have received such payment in full.
 
Section 8.2
                                   
Amendment
.  Unless a Change in Control has previously occurred, this Policy may be amended in any respect by resolution adopted by a majority of the members of the Board; provided, however, that no such amendment shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant under this Policy without the Participant's consent unless such amendment does not become effective until the date that is two years following the giving of notice to all Participants of the adoption of such amendment by the Board.  If a Change in Control occurs, notwithstanding the foregoing, this Policy no longer shall be subject to amendment, change, substitution, deletion or revocation in any respect.
 
Section 8.3
                                   
Form of Amendment/Termination
.  The form of any proper amendment or termination of this Policy shall be a written instrument signed by a duly authorized officer or officers of the Company, certifying that the amendment or termination has been approved by the
 
Board as provided in Sections 8.1 or 8.2 hereof.  A proper amendment of this Policy automatically shall effect a corresponding amendment to all Participants' rights hereunder.  A proper termination of this Policy automatically shall effect a termination of all Participants' rights and benefits hereunder without further action.
 
ARTICLE IX  - MISCELLANEOUS SECTION
 
Section 9.1
                                   
Legal Fees and Expenses/Binding Arbitration
.
 
(a)
                                
It is the intent of the Company that Participants not be required to incur any expenses associated with the enforcement of rights under this Policy because the cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended to be extended to Participants hereunder.  Accordingly, if the Company or any Employer, as the case may be, has failed to comply with any of its obligations under this Policy or in the event that the Company or any Employer, or any other person takes any action to declare this Policy void or unenforceable, or institutes any litigation designed to deny, or to recover from, a Participant the benefits intended to be provided to the Participant hereunder, the Company and each Employer irrevocably authorizes the Participant from time to time to retain counsel of his or her choice, at the expense of the Company, as hereafter provided, to represent the Participant in connection with the initiation or defense of any legal action, whether by or against the Company or any Employer, in any jurisdiction.  The Company shall pay or cause to be paid and shall be solely responsible for any and all reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Participant in enforcing his or her rights hereunder individually (but not as a representative of any class) as a result of the Company's or any Employer's, failure to perform this Policy or any provision hereof or as a result of the Company or any Employer, or any person contesting the validity or enforceability of this Policy or any provision hereof.
 
(b)
                                
Notwithstanding any provision of this Policy to the contrary, (including, without limitation, determining whether a termination is for Just Cause or with Good Reason) any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Policy shall be settled by binding arbitration, conducted before a panel of three arbitrators sitting in a location selected by the Participant within 50 miles from the location of his or her job with his or her Employer, in accordance with current Employment Dispute rules of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") then in effect.  Within fifteen days after the commencement of arbitration, each of the Company and the Participant shall select one person to act as arbitrator, and the two selected shall select a third arbitrator within ten days of their appointment.  If the arbitrators are unable or fail to agree upon the third arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.  Judgment shall be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having jurisdiction.  All expenses of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the counsel for the Participant, shall be borne by the Company.
 
(c)
                                 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Policy to the contrary, all fees and expenses subject to payment or reimbursement pursuant to this Section 9.1 shall be paid not later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant incurs such fees or expenses.  The Participant shall be solely responsible for timely
 
providing to the Company sufficient proof of the fees and expenses to be paid or reimbursed pursuant to this Section.
 
Section 9.2
                                   
Withholding of Taxes
.  The Employer may withhold from any amounts payable under this Policy all foreign, federal, provincial, state, city or other taxes as the Employer reasonably determines are required pursuant to any law or government regulation or ruling.
 
Section 9.3
                                   
Successors
.
 
(a)
                                
This Policy shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Participant's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees and/or legatees.
 
(b)
                                
The rights under this Policy are personal in nature and neither the Company nor any Participant shall, without the consent of the other, assign, transfer or delegate any rights or obligations hereunder except as expressly provided in Section 7.2 hereof.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Participant's right to receive a Severance Payment hereunder shall not be assignable, transferable or delegable, whether by pledge, creation of a security interest or otherwise, other than by a transfer by his or her will or by the laws of descent and distribution and, in the event of any attempted assignment or transfer contrary to this Section 9.3(b), the Company, shall have no liability to pay any amount so attempted to be assigned, transferred or delegated.
 
(c)
                                 
The Company and each Participant recognize that each party will have no adequate remedy at law for breach by the other of any of the agreements contained herein and, in the event of any such breach, the Company, and each Participant hereby agree and consent that the other shall be entitled to a decree of specific performance, mandamus or other appropriate remedy to enforce performance of this Policy.
 
Section 9.4
                                   
Notices
.  For all purposes of this Policy, all communications, including without limitation notices, consents, requests or approvals provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or five business days after having been mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the Company, (to the attention of the General Counsel of the Company), at its principal executive office and to any Participant at his or her principal residence as shown in the relevant records of the Employer, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing and in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt

Exhibit 99
 
 
News Release
 
Ecolab Inc.
370 Wabasha Street North
St. Paul, Minnesota  55102
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Michael J. Monahan            651-293-2809
 
ECOLAB DECLARES REGULAR DIVIDEND;
ANNOUNCES INCREASED SHARE REPURCHASE AUTHORIZATION
 
ST. PAUL, Minn., February 26, 2010 - The Board of Directors of Ecolab Inc. declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.155 per common share, to be paid April 15, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 9, 2010.   Ecolab has paid cash dividends on its common stock for 73 consecutive years.
 
At the same time, the Board of Directors authorized the company to repurchase up to 10 million additional shares of Ecolab stock. As of December 31, 2009, Ecolab had approximately 2.7 million shares remaining under a previous repurchase authorization approved in October 2006.   Ecolab had approximately 236.3 million shares outstanding on January 31, 2010.
 
The company expects to conduct its purchases in the open market; in privately negotiated transactions from time to time, depending on the market conditions; and through purchases made in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
With sales of $6 billion and more than 26,000 associates, Ecolab (NYSE: ECL) is the global leader in cleaning, sanitizing, food safety and infection prevention products and services. Ecolab delivers comprehensive programs and services to the foodservice, food and beverage processing, healthcare, and hospitality markets in more than 160 countries. More news and information is available at www.ecolab.com.
(ECL-D)
 


