FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20110506164643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.07  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
.
 
Ecolab's Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on May 5, 2011.  A copy of the News Release issued by Ecolab in connection with this report under Item 5.07 is attached as Exhibit (99)A.
 
At the meeting, 86.6% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock were represented in person or by proxy.  The first proposal voted upon was the election of four Class I Directors for a term ending at the annual meeting in 2013. The four persons nominated by our Board of Directors received the following votes and were elected:
 
 
In addition, the terms of office of the following directors continued after the meeting:  Class II Directors for a term ending in 2012  Leslie S. Biller, Jerry A. Grundhofer, Victoria J. Reich and John J. Zillmer; and Class III Directors for a term ending in 2013  Arthur J. Higgins, Joel W. Johnson and C. Scott O'Hara.
 
The second proposal voted upon was the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2011.  The proposal received the following votes and was approved:
 
 
The third proposal was to approve amendments to the Ecolab Stock Purchase Plan.  The proposal received the following votes and was approved:
 
 
The fourth proposal was an advisory vote on approval of the compensation of executives disclosed in the Proxy Statement.  The proposal received the following votes:
 
 
The fifth proposal was an advisory vote on the frequency of future stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation.  The proposal received the following votes:
 
 
The sixth proposal was a stockholder proposal requesting the Board of Directors to adopt a policy on the human right to water. The proposal received the following votes and was not approved:
 
The seventh proposal was a stockholder proposal requesting the Board to take action to eliminate super-majority voting.  The proposal received the following votes and was approved:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit (99).A
 
News Release
 
Ecolab Inc.
370 Wabasha Street North
St. Paul, Minnesota  55102
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Michael J. Monahan  651-293-2809
 
ST. PAUL, Minn., May 5, 2011: Ecolab Inc. stockholders today elected the slate of four director nominees for a term ending in 2013:  Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Barbara J. Beck, Jerry W. Levin and Robert L. Lumpkins.  Each nominee received more than 95% of the votes cast.
 
In other action at today's meeting, the company's stockholders ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Ecolab's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011; approved amendments to the Ecolab Stock Purchase Plan; approved on an advisory basis the compensation of executives disclosed in the proxy statement; and advised of a preference for the annual frequency of future stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation.  Also at the meeting, two stockholder proposals were voted upon: a stockholder proposal requesting the Board of Directors to adopt a policy on the human right to water was not approved; and a stockholder proposal requesting the Board to take action to eliminate super-majority voting was approved.
 
The final vote tabulation on all matters at today's meeting will be reported to the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and such report will be made available on the company's web site.
 
With sales of $6 billion and more than 26,000 associates, Ecolab (NYSE: ECL) is the global leader in cleaning, sanitizing, food safety and infection prevention products and services. Ecolab delivers comprehensive programs and services to the foodservice, food and beverage processing, healthcare, and hospitality markets in more than 160 countries. More news and information is available at www.ecolab.com.
(ECL-C)

Exhibit (99).B
 
 
News Release
 
Ecolab Inc.
370 Wabasha Street North
St. Paul, Minnesota  55102
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Michael J. Monahan  651-293-2809
 
ST. PAUL, Minn., May 5, 2011: The Board of Directors of Ecolab Inc. declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.175 per common share, to be paid July 15, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 21, 2011.
 
Ecolab has paid cash dividends on its common stock for 74 consecutive years.
 
At the same meeting, the Board of Directors authorized the company to repurchase up to 15 million additional shares of Ecolab stock. As of March 31, 2011 Ecolab had approximately 3.9 million shares remaining under a previous repurchase authorization approved in February 2010. Ecolab had approximately 235.9 million fully diluted shares outstanding on March 31, 2011.
 
The company expects to conduct its purchases in the open market; in privately negotiated transactions from time to time, depending on the market conditions; and through purchases made in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
With sales of $6 billion and more than 26,000 associates, Ecolab (NYSE: ECL) is the global leader in cleaning, sanitizing, food safety and infection prevention products and services. Ecolab delivers comprehensive programs and services to the foodservice, food and beverage processing, healthcare, and hospitality markets in more than 160 countries. More news and information is available at www.ecolab.com.
 
This news release contains various "Forward-Looking Statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These include statements concerning Ecolab's repurchase of common stock.  These statements, which represent Ecolab's expectations or beliefs concerning various future events, are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those of such Forward-Looking Statements, including changes in Ecolab's stock price, financial results, financial condition and cash requirements.  We caution that undue reliance should not be placed on Forward-Looking Statements, which speak only as of the date made.
 
(ECL-D)


