FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20120419184047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors and Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On April 19, 2012, Ecolab Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Ecolab"), announced that J. Erik Fyrwald, Ecolab's President, will be leaving the company to become the chief executive officer of Univar, a leading global distributor of commodity and specialty chemicals. The resignation is effective May 1, 2012. Fyrwald joined Ecolab as part of the Nalco merger, which closed December 1, 2011, having served as the chairman and chief executive officer of Nalco since 2008.
 
Mr. Fyrwald will be entitled to benefits and severance payments under agreements entered into with Nalco prior to the merger. The agreements are described in the definitive proxy statement relating to Ecolab's 2012 annual stockholders meeting filed with the SEC on March 16, 2012.
 
A copy of the News Release issued by Ecolab in connection with this report under Item 5.02 is attached as Exhibit (99).
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  April 19, 2012 Ecolab announced that J. Erik Fyrwald, president of Ecolab, will leave the company to become the chief executive officer of Univar, a leading global distributor of commodity and specialty chemicals. Fyrwald joined Ecolab as part of the Nalco merger, which closed December 1, 2011, having served as the chairman and chief executive officer of Nalco since 2008.
 
Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Ecolab's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented, saying, "While Erik's departure was not unexpected, I will truly miss partnering with him. He is a first-class individual and executive, and the progress we've made in bringing our two companies together is clearly a reflection of his outstanding leadership and support.  By bringing Nalco and Ecolab together, we've created the global leader in water, hygiene and energy services.  Erik has been a strong and consistent partner throughout our negotiation, merger and integration, always operating in the best interests of his company, shareholders and employees.  Erik made significant contributions during his tenure to see this merger through and we are grateful for his service.  We thank Erik for his partnership and friendship, and wish him well in this next opportunity."
 
Fyrwald stated, "I have truly enjoyed my association with Doug and the rest of the Ecolab team.  The combined company is stronger than either company was before the merger, with better growth prospects and an outstanding management team.  I am confident in their ability to achieve superior growth and success in the years ahead.  Further, our legacy Nalco businesses are in strong hands, led by excellent managers in whom I have the greatest confidence and expect will continue to aggressively grow and develop their businesses.  It is difficult to leave this terrific company, as well as my many Nalco associates, but I look forward to this next phase of my career with excitement."
 
About Ecolab
 
With 2011 pro forma sales of $11 billion and more than 40,000 employees, Ecolab Inc. (NYSE: ECL) is the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that provide and protect clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments. Nalco, an Ecolab company, specializes in industrial water, energy and air applications, helping customers reduce natural resource consumption, enhance air quality, minimize environmental releases and improve productivity. Ecolab delivers comprehensive programs and services to the food, energy, healthcare, industrial and hospitality markets in more than 160 countries.
 
For more news and information, visit www.ecolab.com.
 
Contact:
Michael Monahan
651.293.2809
 
(ECL-C)
 
April 19, 2012
 


