FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20120507083801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
            
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Stockholder Agreement
 
On May 4, 2012, Ecolab Inc. (the "Company") entered into a stockholder agreement (the "Stockholder Agreement") with Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust (together, the "Cascade Parties").
 
Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, the Cascade Parties have agreed to cause all shares of common stock of the Company that they or certain affiliates and associates under their control (collectively with the Cascade Parties, the "Cascade Affiliates") beneficially own to be present for quorum purposes and to be voted in favor of all of the directors nominated by the board of directors of the Company (the "Board") for election at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Company or at any adjournment or postponement thereof, as long as Michael Larson or another designee of the Cascade Parties reasonably acceptable to the Board is given the opportunity to serve on the Board.
 
The Stockholder Agreement prohibits the Cascade Affiliates from acquiring beneficial ownership, including through derivative positions, of more than 25% of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock.  If William H. Gates III, Melinda French Gates, Michael Larson and certain affiliates and associates under their control, including the Cascade Affiliates (collectively, the "Gates Affiliates"), exceed 25% ownership, the Cascade Parties have agreed to divest or cause the divestiture of the number of shares of the Company's common stock necessary to reduce the Gates Affiliates' aggregate ownership to 25% or less.  In addition, the Cascade Affiliates are subject to certain restrictions on their ability to, among other things, (a) solicit proxies or consents or seek to influence voting of shares of the Company's common stock with respect to any matter, except in accordance with matters recommended by the Board, (b) make proposals, including stockholder proposals, relating to control of the Company to be voted on by the Company's stockholders, (c) seek election or appointment to, or representation on, or nominate or publicly propose changes to the composition of, the Board, (d) form, join or participate in a group with respect to shares of the Company's common stock, (e) enter into voting agreements, voting trusts or other arrangements or take any other actions that would limit or otherwise restrict their ability to vote their shares of the Company's common stock, (f) take action in concert with others to control the Company's management, the Board or the operations or policies of the Company and (g) seek, propose or make any public statement with respect to any merger, business combination, tender or exchange offer, sale or purchase of assets or securities, spin-off, restructuring, recapitalization or other extraordinary transaction of or involving the Company.  In the event any Gates Affiliate violates these restrictions, the Cascade Parties have agreed to divest or to cause the divestiture of the number of shares necessary to reduce the Gates Affiliates' aggregate ownership of the Company's common stock to less than 15% of outstanding shares.
 
With exceptions for open-market sales in volumes permitted by Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and certain transfers in connection with the estate plans of William H. Gates III and Melinda French Gates, the Stockholder Agreement restricts the Cascade Affiliates from directly or indirectly transferring shares of the Company's common stock to any party that would hold 5% or more of outstanding shares following the transfer. The Company has agreed to provide the Cascade Parties with registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement, which is described in this Item 1.01 under the heading "Registration Rights Agreement."
 
The Stockholder Agreement will terminate in the event 50% or more of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock or all or substantially all of the Company's assets are acquired by a third party unaffiliated with the Cascade Parties.  In addition, the parties' obligations under the Stockholder Agreement will be suspended (i) during the period prior to the initial acquisition by the Gates Affiliates of 15% of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock and (ii) during any period following the initial acquisition by the Gates Affiliates of 15% of outstanding shares during which the Gates Affiliates own less than 15% of outstanding shares, provided that if any Gates Affiliate violates the standstill provisions or transfer restrictions in the Stockholder Agreement during any such period, the Company may terminate the Stockholder Agreement, and if
 
any such period lasts longer than three years, the Stockholder Agreement will automatically terminate.
 
The Company represents in the Stockholder Agreement that it has amended the Rights Agreement, dated February 24, 2006 (the "Rights Agreement"), between the Company and Computershare Investor Services, LLC (as rights agent), as described in this Item 1.01 under the heading "Amendment to Rights Agreement."
 
Registration Rights Agreement
 
Concurrently with entering into the Stockholder Agreement, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Right Agreement") with the Cascade Parties.  The registration rights granted under the Registration Rights Agreement will go into effect upon the initial acquisition by the Cascade Parties of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock.
 
Subject to certain blackout and suspension provisions and other limitations set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed, upon the request of the Cascade Parties, to effect an underwritten registration of shares of the Company's common stock beneficially owned by the Cascade Parties.  The Cascade Parties cannot request such a registration for an amount of shares representing less than 3% of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock.  In addition, the Company shall not be obligated to effect more than one such registration in any nine month period or a total of more than three such registrations.
 
The Company has also agreed, subject to certain blackout and suspension provisions and other limitations set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, to give the Cascade Parties fifteen business days notice of any proposed stock offering by the Company (whether for the Company's own account or for the account of any of its stockholders) and, upon timely receipt of notification by the Cascade Parties, to include shares beneficially owned by the Cascade Parties in the registration statement related to the proposed offering.
 
The Registration Rights Agreement provides that the Company may postpone or suspend a registration pursuant thereto for up to 180 days during any regularly scheduled insider trading blackout period or if the Company in good faith determines that (a) the registration or disposition of shares would materially impede, delay or interfere with any material transaction then pending or proposed, (b) the Company is in possession of material non-public information the disclosure of which the Company reasonably believes would not be in the best interests of the Company or (c) it would otherwise be materially detrimental to the Company or its stockholders to effect a registration at such time.
 
Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will bear all expenses of a registration (other than underwriting fees, discounts and commissions and expenses of counsel for Cascade and the Trust).
 
The registration rights granted under the Registration Rights Agreement will terminate on the earlier of (i) the termination of the Stockholder Agreement and (ii) the date the Cascade Parties own less than 2% of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock.  Registration rights will be suspended if and for so long as the Cascade Parties are in breach of the Stockholder Agreement.
 
Amendment to Rights Agreement
 
In connection with the execution of the Stockholder Agreement, the Company has entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Rights Agreement.  The Amendment modifies the definition of "Acquiring Person" in the Rights Agreement to provide that the term "Acquiring Person" shall not include the Cascade Affiliates, Michael Larson, William H. Gates III or Melinda French Gates so long as the Stockholder Agreement has not been terminated and the Cascade Parties are in compliance with the terms thereof and, in the case of William H. Gates III and Melinda French Gates, so long as they only own shares of the Company's common stock through the Cascade Affiliates.  The definition of "Adverse Person" is similarly amended to provide that the Board will not declare the Cascade Affiliates, Michael Larson, William H. Gates III or Melinda French Gates to be "Adverse Persons" so long as such conditions are met.
In addition, the Amendment modifies the definition of "Beneficial Owner" and "beneficially own" in the Rights Agreement to include beneficial ownership of securities that are the subject of certain derivative arrangements.  The Amendment also removes from the Rights Agreement all references to and provisions regarding Henkel Kommanditgesellscahft auf Aktien ("Henkel") and the Second Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001 and as amended from time to time, between the Company and Henkel.  As previously disclosed by the Company, Henkel ceased to be a stockholder of the Company in November of 2008.
 
The foregoing descriptions of the Stockholder Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Amendment are qualified in their entirety by reference to the copies of the Stockholder Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Amendment attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 4.1, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 3.03.
            
Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above under the heading "Amendment to Rights Agreement" is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
  
Exhibits.
 
4.1
         
Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2012, between Ecolab Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., successor Rights Agent to Computershare Investor Services, LLC.
 
10.1
         
Stockholder Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2012, by and among Ecolab Inc., Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust.
 
10.2
         
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2012, by and among Ecolab Inc., Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust.
 
99.1
         
News Release dated May 7, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
This Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement (this "") is dated as of May 4, 2012 (the "") and amends the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006 (the ""), between Ecolab Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., successor Rights Agent to Computershare Investor Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as Rights Agent (the "").  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Rights Agreement.
Amendment
Effective Date
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
 
WHEREAS, on May 3, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company determined it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to amend the Rights Agreement on the terms set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, prior to the Distribution Date, the Company and the Rights Agent may, if the Company so directs,  supplement or amend the Rights Agreement without the approval of any holders of certificates representing shares of Common Stock;
 
WHEREAS, the Rights Agent is hereby directed to enter into this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, an officer of the Company has delivered to the Rights Agent a certificate as to the compliance of this Amendment with the terms of Section 27 of the Rights Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the respective agreements set forth herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
            
Amendment of the Rights Agreement
.
 
(a)
          
Section 1(b)(iv) of the Rights Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following, with subsequent clauses of Section 1(b) being renumbered accordingly:
 
(iv)  Cascade Investment, L.L.C., Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, Michael Larson or any Controlled Affiliate or Associate (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) (collectively, the "Cascade Affiliates" and each, a "Cascade Affiliate"), so long as the Stockholder Agreement has not been terminated and the Cascade Parties (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) are in compliance (as determined in good faith by the Company's Board) with the terms thereof;
 
(v)  William H. Gates III or Melinda French Gates, so long as (A) they do not beneficially own any shares of Common Stock other than indirectly through a Cascade Affiliate and (B) the Stockholder Agreement has not
been terminated and the Cascade Parties (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) are in compliance (as determined in good faith by the Company's Board) with the terms thereof; or
 
(b)
          
Section 1(e)(i) of the Rights Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following, with subsequent clauses of Section 1(e) being renumbered accordingly:
 
(i)  any Cascade Affiliate to be an Adverse Person, so long as the Stockholder Agreement has not been terminated and the Cascade Parties (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) are in compliance (as determined in good faith by the Company's Board) with the terms thereof,
 
(ii)  William H. Gates III or Melinda French Gates to be an Adverse Person, so long as (A) they do not beneficially own any shares of Common Stock other than indirectly through a Cascade Affiliate and (B) the Stockholder Agreement has not been terminated and the Cascade Parties (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) are in compliance (as determined in good faith by the Company's Board) with the terms thereof, or
 
(c)
          
Section 1(e)(ii) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the words "the Board shall not declare".
 
(d)
          
Section 1(h) of the Rights Agreement, defining the terms "Beneficial Owner" and "beneficially own", is hereby amended by deleting the word "or" from the end of clause (ii) thereof, adding the word "or" to the end of clause (iii) thereof, and adding the following clause (iv):
 
(iv)  that are the subject of any option, warrant, convertible security, swap, stock appreciation right or other agreement related to the Common Stock or with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to the Common Stock or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of the Common Stock, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in shares of Common Stock or otherwise, that is directly or indirectly beneficially owned by such Person or to which such Person is a party, but not including (A) interests in broad-based index options, broad-based index futures or broad-based publicly traded market baskets or indices of stocks or (B) shares of Common Stock that are the subject of or borrowed in connection with a short position entered into by such Person so long as such Person does not have voting rights in such shares.  In determining the number of shares of Common Stock "beneficially owned" by virtue of the operation of this Section 1(h)(iv), the subject Person shall be deemed to "beneficially own" (without duplication) the notional or other number of shares of Common Stock specified in the documentation evidencing the derivative position as being subject to be acquired upon the exercise or
settlement of the applicable right or as the basis upon which the value or settlement amount of such right, or the opportunity of the holder of such right to profit or share in any profit, is to be calculated in whole or in part, and in any case (or if no such number of shares of Common Stock is specified in such documentation or otherwise), as determined by the
Company's Board in good faith to be the number of shares of Common Stock to which the derivative position relates;
 
(e)
          
Section 1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following Section 1(l), defining the terms "Cascade Affiliates" and "Cascade Affiliate", immediately following Section 1(k), defining the term "By-Laws", with subsequent subsections of Section 1 being renumbered accordingly:
 
(l)
           
"Cascade Affiliates" and "Cascade Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1(b)(iv) hereof.
 
(f)
           
Section 1(x) of the Rights Agreement, defining the term "Henkel", is hereby deleted, with subsequent subsections of Section 1 being renumbered accordingly.
 
(g)
          
Section 1(pp) of the Rights Agreement, defining the term "Stockholder's Agreement", is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
 
(pp)
        
"Stockholder Agreement" shall mean that certain Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2012, among Cascade Investment, L.L.C., Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust and the Company (including any amendments thereto approved by the Company's Board).
 
(h)
          
Section 11(a)(ii)(A) of the Right Agreement is hereby amended by deleting clause (3) thereof and inserting the word "or" immediately before clause (2) thereof.
 
2.
            
No Other Amendment; Effect of Amendment
. Except as and to the extent expressly modified by this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto shall remain in full force and effect in all respects without any modification. This Amendment shall be deemed an amendment to the Rights Agreement and shall become effective on the Effective Date. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this Amendment and the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto, the provisions of this Amendment shall govern.
 
3.
            
Counterparts
. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. A signature to this Agreement transmitted electronically shall have the same authority, effect, and enforceability as an original signature.
 
4.
            
Severability
.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this
 
Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.
 
5.
            
Descriptive Headings
. Descriptive headings in this Amendment are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
 
6.
            
Further Assurances
. Each of the parties to this Amendment shall cooperate and take such action as may be reasonably requested by the other party in order to carry out
the provisions and purposes of this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder.
 
7.
            
Governing Law
. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This Stockholder Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2012 (this ""), is entered into by and among Cascade Investment, L.L.C., an entity wholly owned by William H. Gates III (""), Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, of which William H. Gates III ("") and Melinda French Gates are co-trustees (the "" and together with Cascade, the "" and each, a ""), and Ecolab Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "").  This Agreement is intended to establish a means for a long-term investment in the Company by Gates, through Cascade, and the Trust, for the mutual benefit of the parties hereto.
Agreement
Cascade
Gates
Trust
Cascade Parties
Cascade Party
Company
 
In consideration of and reliance upon the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.
                                     
Voting
.  During the term of this Agreement, each Cascade Party will cause all Voting Securities that it or any of its Affiliates and Associates over which it has the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, control (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, any publicly traded company (a) in which the Cascade Parties beneficially own less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting securities and (b) of which the Gates Affiliates (as defined below) and their designees comprise in the aggregate less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the board of directors and do not have the right to designate twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the board of directors) (collectively, the "" and each, a ""), owns (of record or beneficially) or otherwise has the direct or indirect power to vote or to direct the voting of (whether by proxy or otherwise) (collectively, the "") to be present for quorum purposes and to be voted in favor of all of the directors nominated by the board of directors of the Company (the "") for election at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders of the Company or at any adjournment or postponement thereof, but only if Michael Larson (or another Person designated by Cascade in lieu of Michael Larson and reasonably acceptable to the Company) is (or is given the opportunity to be) one of the directors nominated by the Board for election at such meeting or would otherwise be (or be given the opportunity to be) on the Board following such meeting.
Controlled Affiliates and Associates
Controlled Affiliate or Associate
Investor Voting Securities
Board
 
2.
                                     
Standstill
.
 
(a)
                                
Ownership Limit
.
 
(i)
                                    
During the term of this Agreement:
 
(1)
                                
neither Cascade Party shall, and each Cascade Party shall cause its Controlled Affiliates and Associates not to, in any way, directly or indirectly without the prior approval of the Board, acquire, offer to acquire, or agree to acquire (except by way of stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits or other distributions or offerings made to holders of any class of Voting Securities generally), whether by purchase, tender or exchange offer, by joining a group (including any group of Persons that would be treated as a single "person" under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) or otherwise, record or beneficial ownership of any Voting Securities if, as a result of such acquisition, the Cascade Parties would beneficially own in the aggregate in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) of the then outstanding common stock, par value $1.00 per share,
of the Company (the "");
Common Stock
 
(2)
                                
in the event Gates, Melinda French Gates, Michael Larson or any of their respective Affiliates or Associates over which they have the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, control (including the Cascade Parties and the Controlled Affiliates and Associates but excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, any publicly traded company (A) in which the Gates Affiliates beneficially own less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting securities and (B) of which the Gates Affiliates (as defined below) and their designees comprise in the aggregate less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the board of directors and do not have the right to designate twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the board of directors) (collectively with Gates, Melinda French Gates and Michael Larson, the "" and each, a "") in any way, directly or indirectly without the prior approval of the Board, acquires, offers to acquire, or agrees to acquire (except by way of stock dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits or other distributions or offerings made to holders of any class of Voting Securities generally), whether by purchase, tender or exchange offer, by joining a group (including any group of Persons that would be treated as a single "person" under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) or otherwise, record or beneficial ownership of any Voting Securities if, as a result of such acquisition, the Gates Affiliates would beneficially own in the aggregate in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) of the then outstanding Common Stock, the Cascade Parties shall, within ten (10) Business Days of such acquisition, divest and/or cause the divestiture of the amount of Common Stock necessary to reduce the aggregate percentage of outstanding shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Gates Affiliates to twenty-five percent (25%) or less; and
Gates Affiliates
Gates Affiliate
 
(3)
                                
the Cascade Parties will not be in violation of this Agreement if (A) the Cascade Parties and Controlled Affiliates and Associates or (B) the Gates Affiliates unintentionally acquire beneficial ownership of greater than twenty-five percent (25%) of outstanding shares of Common Stock so long as the Cascade Parties, within ten (10) Business Days of becoming aware that such threshold has been crossed, divest and/or cause the divestiture of the amount of Common Stock necessary to reduce the aggregate percentage of outstanding shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Gates Affiliates to twenty-five percent (25%) or less.
 
(ii)
                                 
Voting Securities acquired by Michael Larson pursuant to the Company's customary non-employee director compensation arrangements shall not be counted toward the twenty-five percent (25%) ownership limits in Section 2(a)(i)(1) or Section 2(a)(i)(2).  In addition, it is understood that Michael Larson may serve from time to time as a trustee or director of certain educational, charitable and other not-for-profit institutions that may own publicly-traded securities, including Common Stock, and that Michael Larson shall not be deemed, solely by virtue of his service as a trustee or director of any such institution, to beneficially own any shares of Common Stock held by such institution for purposes of Section 2(a)(i)(2).
(iii)
                              
It will not be a violation of Section 2(a)(i)(1) and the Cascade Parties shall have no obligation under Section 2(a)(i)(2) if the beneficial ownership of Common Stock by the Cascade Parties and the Controlled Affiliates and Associates, in the case of Section 2(a)(i)(1), or the Gates Affiliates, in the case of Section 2(a)(i)(2), exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) solely as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company or its subsidiaries (including without limitation as a result of a redemption or repurchase by the Company or its subsidiaries of any Voting Securities) that, by reducing the number of shares of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportionate number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Cascade Parties and the Controlled Affiliates and Associates, in the case of Section 2(a)(i)(1), or the Gates Affiliates, in the case of Section 2(a)(i)(2), provided that no Cascade Party or Controlled Affiliate or Associate or Gates Affiliate, as applicable, acquires beneficial ownership of additional shares of Common Stock in violation hereof.
(iv)
                             
For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 2(a) and determining the Voting Securities outstanding at any given time, the Cascade Parties shall be entitled to rely without independent investigation upon the most recent publicly available Form 10-K, Form 10-Q or Form 8-K (or any successor form) of the Company filed with the SEC reporting the number of Voting Securities then issued and outstanding.
 
(b)
                                
Other Standstill Provisions
.
 
(i)
                                    
During the term of this Agreement, each Cascade Party and Controlled Affiliate and Associate shall not, and the Cascade Parties and the Controlled Affiliates and Associates shall not assist or cooperate with any other Gates Affiliates in any action by them to, in any way, directly or indirectly, without the prior approval of the Board:
 
(1)
                                
make, or in any way participate in or encourage, any "solicitation" (as such term is used in the proxy rules of the SEC) of proxies or consents with respect to the election or removal of directors or any other matter or proposal; or seek to advise, encourage or influence any Person with respect to the voting of any Voting Securities, except in accordance with matters recommended by the Board;
 
(2)
                                
make any proposal relating to control of the Company or of the Board or its members to be voted upon by holders of Voting Securities, whether made pursuant to the rules under the Exchange Act, the Company's bylaws or otherwise;
 
(3)
                                
seek election or appointment to, or representation on, or nominate or publicly propose (or propose in a manner that would require public disclosure by the Gates Affiliates or the Company) the nomination of any candidate to, the Board (other than the appointment or re-nomination by the Board of Michael Larson or another Person designated by Cascade in lieu of Michael Larson and reasonably acceptable to the Company as a director) or publicly seek (or seek in a manner that would require public disclosure by the Gates Affiliates or the Company) the removal of any member of the Board, or a change in
the composition or size of the Board;
 
(4)
                                
form, join or participate in any group (including any group of Persons that would be treated as a single "person" under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act but excluding any group that consists solely of one or more of Gates or Melinda French Gates (in each case, solely as the beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock indirectly through Cascade and the Trust) or the Cascade Parties or the Controlled Affiliates or Associates) with respect to any Voting Securities;
(5)
                                
deposit any Voting Securities in any voting trust, or enter into any voting agreement, proxy or other similar arrangement with respect to any Voting Securities (in each case, other than solely with Gates or Melinda French Gates (in each case, solely as the beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock indirectly through Cascade and the Trust) or other Cascade Parties or Controlled Affiliates or Associates, provided such action does not restrict the ability of the Cascade Parties and the Controlled Affiliates and Associates to vote or cause to be voted the Investor Voting Securities in accordance with Section 1 of this Agreement), or take any other action that would limit or otherwise restrict the ability of the Cascade Parties and the Controlled Affiliates and Associates to vote or cause to be voted the Investor Voting Securities in accordance with Section 1 of this Agreement;
 
(6)
                                
act in concert with others to control or seek to control or influence the management, Board, operations or policies of the Company;
 
(7)
                                
seek, propose or make any public statement (or any statement that would require public disclosure by the Gates Affiliates or the Company) with respect to any merger, business combination, tender or exchange offer, sale or purchase of assets, sale or purchase of securities, spin-off, restructuring, recapitalization or other extraordinary transaction of or involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries;
 
(8)
                                
enter into any arrangements, understandings or agreements (whether written or oral) with, or advise, finance, assist or encourage, any other Person in connection with, any of the foregoing; or make any investment in or enter into any arrangement with any other Person that offers or proposes to engage in any of the foregoing; or
 
(9)
                                
take any action challenging the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or request the Company or Board amend or waive any provision of this Agreement, provided that the Cascade Parties may make confidential requests to the Board to amend or waive any provision of this Agreement, which the Board may accept or reject in its sole discretion, so long as any such request is made in a manner that does not require public disclosure by, and is not publicly disclosed by, any Gates Affiliate and is made in a manner that does not require public disclosure thereof by the Company.
 
(ii)
                                 
Section 2(b)(i) of this Agreement shall not limit the ability of Michael Larson or
any other Person serving as a director of the Company at the request of the Cascade Parties, in his or her capacity as a director of the Company, to fully participate in board meetings and express his or her views as a director, provided that he or she shall not (1) take any action that would require any Gates Affiliate to amend a filing with the SEC under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act or (2) in connection with any resignation by him or her as a director of the Company, make any communication with the Company (A) that the Company would be required to file on a Form 8-K and (B) that would otherwise violate Section 2(b)(i) of this Agreement but for the existence of this Section 2(b)(ii).
(iii)
                              
In the event any Gates Affiliate takes any action (or refrains from taking any action) that would violate Section 1 or Section 2(b)(i) of this Agreement if such Gates Affiliate were or is a Cascade Party, the Cascade Parties shall, within ten (10) Business Days, divest and/or cause the divestiture of the amount of Common Stock necessary to reduce the aggregate percentage of outstanding shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Gates Affiliates to less than fifteen percent (15%).
 
3.
                                     
Disposition of Shares; Registration Rights
.
 
(a)
                                
With the exception of (i) open market sales of Voting Securities that are made in compliance with Rule 144(e) promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and (ii) a transfer of beneficial ownership of Voting Securities from Gates or Melinda French Gates to an executor of his or her estate or from any such executor to the heirs or other beneficiaries of such estate (provided that the executor and any other transferee that would beneficially own in the aggregate five percent (5%) or more of the Voting Securities then outstanding following any such transfer shall become a party to this Agreement as a "Cascade Party," and any transferee that would beneficially own in the aggregate less than five percent (5%) of the Voting Securities then outstanding following any such transfer shall be deemed a "Gates Affiliate" for purposes of this Agreement), no Cascade Party or Controlled Affiliate or Associate shall sell, transfer, pledge, encumber or dispose of, directly or indirectly, any Voting Securities (including by transfer of an entity that holds Investor Voting Securities), to a Gates Affiliate or other Person (other than to another Cascade Party or any Controlled Affiliate or Associate) who, to the knowledge of such Cascade Party or Controlled Affiliate or Associate after due inquiry, would beneficially own in the aggregate five percent (5%) or more of the Voting Securities then outstanding following such transaction (a "").  For the avoidance of doubt, the Cascade Parties may request, in accordance with the terms of  of this Agreement, that the Board approve any such transaction with a Prohibited Transferee in advance of such transaction.
Prohibited Transferee
Section 2(b)(i)(9)
 
(b)
                                
The Company agrees to provide registration rights to the Cascade Parties in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement entered into by the parties on the date hereof (the "").  The Cascade Parties may sell Voting Securities pursuant to an underwritten public offering under the Securities Act in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, provided that (i) the managing underwriter must agree to effect the sale of the Investor Voting Securities in a manner that would effect a broad distribution thereof and (ii) the Cascade Parties shall use reasonable efforts to insure that no sales of Investor Voting Securities are made to any
Registration Rights Agreement
Prohibited Transferee (other than the underwriters or any selected dealers).
 
4.
                                     
Cascade 13D Filing
.  The Company acknowledges that Gates, Melinda French Gates and the Cascade Parties will comply with their obligations under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act relating to the Cascade Parties entering into this Agreement.
 
5.
                                     
Representations and Warranties
.
 
(a)
                                
Each Cascade Party represents and warrants to the Company, as to itself but not as to the other Cascade Party, that:
 
(i)
                                    
This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and is a legal, valid and binding obligation of such entity, enforceable against such entity in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws generally affecting the rights of creditors and subject to general equity principles.
(ii)
                                 
As of the date hereof, such Cascade Party beneficially owns that number of Voting Securities set forth opposite of its name on hereto and, to its knowledge, hereto lists all of the Voting Securities beneficially owned by any Gates Affiliate.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
 
(iii)
                              
As of the date hereof, neither such Cascade Party nor, to its knowledge, any Gates Affiliate (A) owns, beneficially or of record, or is a party to any Derivative Instrument, or has any other agreement to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of Common Stock, or (B) is a party to any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding or relationship pursuant to which it has a right to vote any securities of the Company.
 
(b)
                                
The Company represents, warrants and covenants to the Cascade Parties that:
 
(i)
                                    
This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws generally affecting the rights of creditors and subject to general equity principles.
 
(ii)
                                 
The Board has approved the amendment of, and the Company has amended, the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, between the Company and Computershare Investor Services, LLC, as rights agent (the ""), to provide that (A) the Cascade Parties, Michael Larson and the Controlled Affiliates and Associates shall not be deemed Acquiring Persons (as defined in the Rights Agreement), and the Board shall not declare them to be Adverse Persons (as defined in the Rights Agreement), in each case so long as this Agreement has not been terminated and the Cascade Parties are in compliance (as determined in good faith by the Board) with the terms hereof and (B) Gates and Melinda French Gates shall not be deemed Acquiring Persons (as defined in the Rights Agreement), and the Board shall not declare them to be Adverse Persons (as defined in the Rights Agreement), in each case so long as
Rights Agreement
(1) they do not beneficially own (as defined in the Rights Agreement) any shares of Common Stock other than indirectly through a Cascade Party or a Controlled Affiliate or Associate and (2) this Agreement has not been terminated and the Cascade Parties are in compliance (as determined in good faith by the Board) with the terms hereof.  Such amendment to the Right Agreement has been delivered to the Cascade Parties, is in full force and effect and has not been modified or further amended. So long as there have been no violations of this Agreement by either Cascade Party, the Company agrees not to amend or modify the Rights Agreement or enter into any new stockholder rights or similar agreement in any manner inconsistent with this Section 5(b)(ii).
 
6.
                                     
Suspension of Obligations; Termination
.
 
(a)
                                
During the period from the date hereof until the initial acquisition by the Gates Affiliates of beneficial ownership of, in the aggregate, fifteen percent (15%) or more of outstanding shares of Common Stock, the rights and obligations of the parties under Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement shall be suspended and of no force and effect; provided that (i) in the event any Gates Affiliate takes any action (or refrains from taking any action) during such period that would violate this Agreement (other than Section 1 hereof) if such Gates Affiliate were or is a Cascade Party and this Agreement were in full force and effect, the Company may terminate this Agreement within sixty (60) days of (1) senior management of the Company gaining actual knowledge of such action or (2) receipt by the Company of written notice from a Cascade Party of such action, by providing written notice to the Cascade Parties and (ii) in the event such period is longer than thirty-six (36) months in duration, this Agreement shall immediately terminate.
(b)
                                
Following the initial acquisition by the Gates Affiliates of beneficial ownership of, in the aggregate, fifteen percent (15%) or more of outstanding shares of Common Stock, the rights and obligations of the parties under Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement shall be suspended and of no force and effect for any period during which the Gates Affiliates beneficially own in the aggregate less than fifteen percent (15%) of outstanding shares of Common Stock; provided that (i) in the event any Gates Affiliate takes any action (or refrains from taking any action) during such period that would violate this Agreement (other than Section 1 hereof) if such Gates Affiliate were or is a Cascade Party and this Agreement were in full force and effect, the Company may terminate this Agreement within sixty (60) days of (1) senior management of the Company gaining actual knowledge of such action or (2) receipt by the Company of written notice from a Cascade Party of such action, by providing written notice to the Cascade Parties and (ii) in the event any such period of suspension is longer than thirty-six (36) months in duration, this Agreement shall immediately terminate.
 
(c)
                                 
This Agreement shall immediately terminate in the event a third party other than any Cascade Party or Controlled Affiliate or Associate enters into a definitive agreement with the Company contemplating the acquisition (by way of merger, tender offer, consolidation, business combination or otherwise) of at least fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares of Common Stock or all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company.
 
7.
                                     
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Waiver
.  This Agreement, and any dispute arising out of, relating to or in connection with this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws principles.  Each of the
parties hereto (a) consents to the exclusive personal jurisdiction and venue in any action to enforce this Agreement in the federal or state courts located in Wilmington, Delaware;  (b) agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court;  and (c) agrees that it shall not bring any action relating to this Agreement in any court other than the federal or state courts located in Wilmington, Delaware.  Each of the parties hereto waives any right to trial by jury with respect to any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.
 
9.
                                     
Entire Agreement
.  This Agreement, the Rights Agreement (as amended) and the Registration Rights Agreement contain the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
10.
                              
Notices
.  All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when delivered by overnight courier, receipt confirmed, to:
 
 
or such other address as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose of giving such notice to such party.
 
11.
                              
Definitions
.  As used in this Agreement, (a) the terms "" and "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act and shall include Persons who become Affiliates of any Person subsequent to the date of this Agreement; (b) the terms "" and "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act and shall include Persons who become
Affiliate
Affiliates
Associate
Associates
Associates of any Person subsequent to the date of this Agreement; (c) the terms "" and "" shall have the meanings as set forth in Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act, provided that, for purposes of this Agreement, (i) the reference to "sixty days" in Rule 13d-3 shall be deleted, (ii) a Person shall also be deemed to be the beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock that are the subject of a Derivative Instrument directly or indirectly beneficially owned by such Person or to which such Person is a party and (iii) a Person shall not be deemed the beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock that are the subject of or borrowed in connection with a short position entered into by such Person so long as such Person does not have voting rights in such shares; (d) the term "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banks in New York city are authorized or obligated by applicable law or executive order to close or ore otherwise generally closed; (e) the term "" shall mean any option, warrant, convertible security, swap, stock appreciation right or other agreement related to the Common Stock or with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to the Common Stock or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of the Common Stock, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in shares of Common Stock or otherwise, but shall not include interests in broad-based index options, broad-based index futures or broad-based publicly traded market baskets or indices of stocks; (f) the terms "" or "" shall be interpreted broadly to include, among others, any individual, corporation (including not-for-profit), general or limited partnership, limited liability or unlimited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, association, organization or other entity of any kind or nature; (g) the term "" shall mean the shares of Common Stock and any other securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors, including any securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, Common Stock or such other securities; (h) the term "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (i) the term "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; and (j) the term "" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
beneficially own
beneficial owner
Business Day
Derivative Instrument
Person
Persons
Voting Securities
Exchange Act
Securities Act
SEC
12.
                              
Severability
.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, void or unenforceable, the illegality or unenforceability of such provision shall have no effect upon the legality or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement that is held invalid or unenforceable only in part or degree shall remain in full force and effect to the extent not held invalid or unenforceable.  The parties hereto further agree to replace such invalid or unenforceable provision of this Agreement with a valid and enforceable provision that will achieve, to the extent possible, the purposes of such invalid or unenforceable provision.
 
13.
                              
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts (including by fax or .pdf), which together shall constitute a single agreement.
 
14.
                              
Binding Agreement; Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.  No party hereto may assign or otherwise transfer either this Agreement or any of its rights, interests, or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other parties hereto.  Any purported transfer without such consent shall be void.  No amendment, modification, supplement or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed by the party or parties hereto affected thereby, and then only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose stated therein.  Any waiver by any party hereto of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of any other breach of such provision or of any breach of any other provision of this Agreement.  The failure
of a party hereto to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on one or more occasions shall not be considered a waiver or deprive that party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement.
 
15.
                              
No Third Party Beneficiaries
.  This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and is not enforceable by any other Persons.
 
16.
                              
Fees and Expenses
.  Neither the Company, on the one hand, nor the Cascade Parties, on the other hand, will be responsible for any fees or expenses of the other in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement.
 
17.
                              
Interpretation and Construction
.  Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it has been represented by counsel of its choice throughout all negotiations that have preceded the execution of this Agreement, and that it has executed the same with the advice of said counsel.  Each party and its counsel cooperated and participated in the drafting and preparation of this Agreement, and any drafts relating thereto exchanged among the parties may not be construed against any party by reason of its drafting or preparation.  Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any ambiguities in this Agreement against any party that drafted or prepared it is of no application and is hereby expressly waived by each of the parties hereto, and any controversy over interpretations of this Agreement shall be decided without regard to events of drafting or preparation.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this Stockholder Agreement, or caused the same to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
As sole owner of Cascade, William H. Gates III may be deemed to beneficially own the shares held by Cascade; as co-trustees of Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, Mr. and Mrs. Gates may be deemed to beneficially own the shares held by the Trust.
 
As chief investment officer for Mr. Gates, Michael Larson has voting and investment power with respect to the shares held by Cascade and the Trust, but disclaims beneficial ownership of those shares.

Exhibit 10.2
 
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of May 4, 2012 (this ""), is entered into by and among Ecolab Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust (each, a "" and together, the "").
Agreement
Company
Holder
Holders
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Holders have entered into that certain agreement, dated as of the date hereof (the ""); and
Stockholder Agreement
 
WHEREAS, in consideration for the Stockholder Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the Holders with certain registration rights with respect to the Registrable Securities (as defined herein) as set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained in the Stockholder Agreement and herein, intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
Section 1.01          .  The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
Definitions
 
"" means this Agreement, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, in accordance with the terms hereof, together with any exhibits, schedules or other attachments thereto.
Agreement
 
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banks in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by applicable law or executive order to close or are otherwise generally closed.
Business Day
 
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency at the time administering either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
Commission
 
"" means the common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company (and any other securities into which or for which the Common Stock may be converted or exchanged pursuant to a dividend, stock split, plan of recapitalization, reorganization, merger, sale of assets or otherwise).
Common Stock
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Company
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Covered Person
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Damages
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Demand Registration
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
 
"" and "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement, and shall include any Permitted Transferee that becomes a Holder pursuant to Section 4.05.
Holder
Holders
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Holders' Counsel
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.03.
Indemnified Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.03.
Indemnifying Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Initiating Holder
 
"" means the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA
 
"" shall mean Holders participating in the registration relating to the Registrable Securities.
Participating Holders
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.05.
Permitted Transferee
 
"" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association, unincorporated organization, university, group, joint-stock company or other entity.
Person
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(a).
Piggyback Registration
 
"", "" and "" shall mean any registration effected by preparing and (a) filing a Registration Statement in compliance with the Securities Act (and any post-effective amendments filed or required to be filed) and the declaration or ordering of effectiveness of such Registration Statement, or (b) filing a prospectus and/or prospectus supplement in respect of an appropriate effective Registration Statement.
register
registered
registration
 
"" means, subject to the last sentence of this definition, shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by any of the Holders and not acquired in violation of the Stockholder Agreement.  As to any particular Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) they are sold or otherwise transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or (ii) in the case of a Holder who is not an affiliate of the Company, such shares of Common Stock shall have been or all remaining Registrable Securities held by such Holder may immediately be sold under Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force) under the Securities Act and without any volume or manner of sale restrictions.
Registrable Securities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Registration Expenses
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Registration Request
 
"" means any registration statement of the Company on an appropriate registration form under the Securities Act that covers any of the Registrable Securities, including the prospectus, amendments and supplements thereto, and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Request Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Request Notice
 
"" means any black-out period declared by the Company in connection with a quarterly earnings release in accordance with Company policy (as may be amended from time to time).
Scheduled Black-out Period
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
 
"" means a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (or any successor or similar provision) or any similar short-form or other appropriate Registration Statement that may be available at such time, in each case for an offering to be made on a continuous or delayed basis pursuant to Rule 415 (or any successor or similar provision) under the Securities Act covering Registrable Securities. To the extent that the Company is a "well-known seasoned issuer" (as such term is defined in Rule 405 (or any successor or similar rule) of the Securities Act), a "Shelf Registration Statement" shall be deemed to refer to an "automatic shelf registration statement," as such term is defined in Rule 405 (or any successor or similar rule) of the Securities Act.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Stockholder Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(a).
Suspension Notice
"" means a securities dealer who purchases any Registrable Securities as principal in an underwritten offering and not as part of such dealer's market-making activities.
Underwriter
 
"" means, for any Demand Registration or Piggyback Registration, that number of securities to which such registration should, in the opinion of the managing underwriter of such registration, in the light of marketing factors (including an adverse effect on the per share offering price), be limited.
Underwriters' Maximum Number
 
Section 2.01          .
Demand For Registration; Underwritten Offering
 
(a)        .  Subject to the blackout provisions contained in Section 2.06 and the limitations set forth in this Section 2.01, a Holder or group of Holders (such Holder or group of Holders, the "") shall have the right to require the Company to effect a registration with respect to Registrable Securities beneficially owned by such Initiating Holder(s) for an underwritten registration (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may be pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement as determined by the Initiating Holder(s)) under the Securities Act (a "") by delivering a written request therefor (a "") to the Company specifying the number of Registrable Securities to be included in such underwritten registration by the Initiating Holder(s).  In no event shall the Initiating Holder(s) make a Registration Request under this Section 2.01(a) to offer in the aggregate less than Registrable Securities that constitute three percent (3%) of the Company's outstanding Common Stock as of the date of the Request Notice (the "").  As soon as practicable after the receipt of a Registration Request, the Company shall (i) give written notice of such request to all other Holders and (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to effect the registration (including, without limitation, appropriate qualification under applicable blue sky or other state securities laws and appropriate compliance with applicable regulations issued under the Securities Act and any other governmental requirements or regulations) of the Registrable Securities that have been requested to be registered in the Registration Request or by any other Holder by written notice to the Company given within fifteen (15) Business Days after the date the Company delivered such Holders notice of the Registration Request.  Any registration requested by a Holder or Holders pursuant to this Section 2.01(a) is referred to in this Agreement as a "".  The Company shall not be obliged under this Section 2.01(a) to effect more than (A) one (1) Demand Registration during any nine-month period or (B) a total of three (3)
Requests for Registration
Initiating Holder(s)
Registration Request
Request Notice
Request Date
Demand Registration
Demand Registrations on behalf of the Holders.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Company, at its sole option, may elect to utilize an existing Registration Statement for the purpose of registering any Registrable Securities covered by a Demand Registration.
 
(b)        .  Unless effected pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, the offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to such Demand Registration shall be in the form of an underwritten public offering only. The managing underwriter to administer the offering in connection with any such Demand Registration will be chosen by the Company, subject to the prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed, of the Initiating Holder(s).  The Initiating Holder(s) may designate a co-managing underwriter in connection with any such Demand Registration, subject to the prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed, of the Company.   The right of any Participating Holder other than the Initiating Holder(s) to registration pursuant to this Section 2.01 will be conditioned upon such holder agreeing to the method of distribution being proposed by the Initiating Holder(s) and, in the case of an underwritten offering, agreeing to such underwriting and the inclusion of such holder's Registrable Securities in the underwriting.  If applicable, the Company and the Participating Holder(s) shall enter into an underwriting agreement in customary form with the managing Underwriter, which underwriting agreement shall have substantially the same indemnification provisions as set forth in this Agreement.
Underwriting
 
(c)        .  If, in connection with a Demand Registration, the managing Underwriter gives written advice to the Company of an Underwriters' Maximum Number, then the Company shall so advise all Initiating Holder(s) and the Company will be required to include in such registration only the Underwriters' Maximum Number, which securities will be so included in the following order of priority: (i) first, Registrable Securities of the Initiating Holder(s), pro rata on the basis of the aggregate number of Registrable Securities owned by all Initiating Holder(s) who have delivered written requests for registration pursuant to this Section 2.01, (ii) second, Registrable Securities of any other Participating Holders, pro rata on the basis of the aggregate number of Registrable Securities owned by all such Participating Holders who have delivered written requests for registration pursuant to this Section 2.01, (iii), third, any shares of Common Stock to be sold by the Company and (iv) fourth, any shares of Common Stock requested to be included pursuant to the exercise of other contractual registration rights granted by the Company, pro rata among such holders (if applicable) on the basis of the aggregate number of securities requested to be included by such holders.
Priority on Demand Registration
 
(d)        .  An offering pursuant to Section 2.01(a) shall not be counted as a Demand Registration for purposes of the second to last sentence of Section 2.01(a) unless such offering is completed, except that in the event (i) the Company has made substantial efforts to effect an offering pursuant to a Registration Request and such offering is not completed due to action or non-action of the Holders or (ii) the offering contemplated by a Registration Request does not close within 180 days of the date on which the applicable Registration Statement has been declared effective by the SEC despite the commercially reasonable efforts of the Company, such offering will be so counted as a Demand Registration and the Company shall have no further obligations to effect such offering.
Effected Demand Registration
 
Section 2.02          .
Piggyback Registration
 
(a)        .  If the Company proposes to register any of its equity securities under the Securities Act either for the Company's own account or for the account of any of its stockholders (other than (A) securities to be issued solely in connection with any acquisition of or business combination with any entity or business, (B) securities issuable solely upon the exercise of stock options, (C) securities issuable solely pursuant to employee benefit plans, (D) securities issuable in connection with an exchange offer, (E) a registration on any registration form which does not permit secondary sales or does not include substantially the same information as would be required to be
Notice of Piggyback Registration
included in a Registration Statement, or (F) for Initiating Holder(s) pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof entitled to participate in a registration) (each such registration not withdrawn or abandoned prior to the effective date thereof being herein called a ""), the Company will give written notice to all Holders of such proposal not later than the earlier to occur of (i) the seventh (7
Piggyback Registration
th
) Business Day following the receipt by the Company of notice of exercise of any registration rights by any Persons, and (ii) the fifteenth (15
th
) Business Day prior to the anticipated filing date of such Piggyback Registration.
 
(b)        .  Subject to the provisions contained in Section 2.02(c), the Company will be required to use commercially reasonable efforts to include in each Piggyback Registration such Registrable Securities as requested in a written notice from any Holder delivered to the Company no later than ten (10) Business Days following delivery of the notice from the Company specified in Section 2.02(a).
Piggyback Rights
 
(c)        .  If a Piggyback Registration is an underwritten registration, and the managing underwriter shall give written advice to the Company of an Underwriters' Maximum Number, then securities will be included in the following order of priority: (i) equity securities proposed to be included in such Piggyback Registration by the Company for its own account, or on the account of such holder or holders for whom or for which the registration was originally being effected pursuant to demand or other registration rights, as applicable, and (ii) if the Underwriters' Maximum Number exceeds the number of securities proposed to be included pursuant to clause (i), then such excess, up to the Underwriters' Maximum Number, shall be allocated pro rata among any Participating Holders and any holders of other piggyback registration rights on the basis of the number of securities requested to be included therein by each such Holder or other Person.
Priority on Piggyback Registrations
(d)        .  If the Piggyback Registration is proposed to be underwritten, the Company will so advise the Holders in the notice referred to in Section 2.02(a).  In such event, the right of any Holder to registration pursuant to this Section 2.02 will be conditioned upon such holder's participation in such underwriting and the inclusion of such holder's Registrable Securities in the underwriting.  The Company, or the holder or holders for whom or for which such registration was originally being effected pursuant to demand or other registration rights, as applicable, shall have the sole right to select the investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) in any such underwritten Piggyback Registration.
Selection of Underwriter(s)
 
Section 2.03          .  In connection with registrations pursuant to Section 2.01 or 2.02 hereof, the Company shall pay the following registration costs and expenses incurred in connection with the registration thereunder (the ""): (i) registration and filing fees and expenses, including, without limitation, those related to filings with the Commission, (ii) fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with blue sky qualifications of the Registrable Securities), (iii) reasonable processing, duplicating and printing expenses, including, without limitation, expenses of printing any prospectuses or issuer free writing prospectuses reasonably requested by any Participating Holder, (iv)  the Company's internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties, the expense of any liability insurance and the expense of any annual audit or quarterly review), (v) fees and expenses incurred in connection with listing the Registrable Securities for trading on a national securities exchange, including, without limitation, fees and expenses of The New York Stock Exchange, (vi) fees and expenses in connection with the preparation of the registration statement and related documents covering the Registrable Securities, (vii) fees and expenses, if any, incurred with respect to any filing with FINRA, (viii) any documented out-of-pocket expenses of the Underwriter(s) incurred with the approval of the Company, (ix) the cost of providing any CUSIP or other identification numbers for the Registrable Securities, (x) fees
Registration Expenses
Registration Expenses
and expenses and disbursements of counsel for the Company and fees and expenses for independent certified public accountants retained by the Company (including, without limitation, the expenses of any comfort letters or costs associated with the delivery by independent certified public accountants of a comfort letter or comfort letters requested), and (xi) fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with such registration. Each Participating Holder shall be responsible for any underwriting fees, discounts or commissions as well as disbursements to counsel for any Participating Holder ("") attributable to the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement.
Holders' Counsel
 
Section 2.04          .  In the case of each registration effected by the Company pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall keep each Participating Holder advised in writing as to the initiation of each registration and as to the completion thereof.  In connection with any such registration (in each case, to the extent applicable):
Registration Procedures
 
(a)        The Company shall prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may be a Shelf Registration Statement) and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective as soon as reasonably practicable, or prepare and file with the Commission a prospectus supplement with respect to such Registrable Securities pursuant to an effective Registration Statement and, upon the request of the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities registered thereunder, keep such Registration Statement effective or such prospectus supplement current, until (i) in the case of a Shelf Registration, the earlier of (A) 180 days after the effective date, (B) the date on which all Registrable Securities covered thereby have been sold pursuant to such registration and (C) the first date on which no Registrable Securities remain outstanding and (ii) in the case of any Registration Statement not related to a Shelf Registration, the earlier of (A) the date on which all Registrable Securities covered thereby have been sold pursuant to such registration and (B) the expiration of ninety (90) days after such registration statement becomes effective.
(b)        The Company will prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and supplements to the Registration Statement, prospectus, prospectus supplement or any issuer free writing prospectus used in connection with such Registration Statement as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act applicable to it with respect to the disposition of Registrable Securities covered thereby for the period set forth in Section 2.04(a).
 
(c)        Prior to filing a Registration Statement, a prospectus or any issuer free writing prospectus or any amendment or supplement to such Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus, the Company will make available to (i) each Participating Holder, (ii) Holders' Counsel and (iii) each Underwriter of the Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement, copies of such Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus and each amendment or supplement as proposed to be filed, together with any exhibits thereto, and thereafter, furnish to such Participating Holders, Holders' Counsel and Underwriters, if any, such reasonable number of copies of such Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus and each amendment and supplement thereto, without charge, the prospectus included in such Registration Statement (including each preliminary prospectus) and such other documents or information as such Participating Holder, Holders' Counsel or Underwriters may reasonably request in order to permit the Participating Holders and Holders' Counsel sufficient time to review and comment on the same and facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities in accordance with the plan of distribution set forth in the prospectus included in the Registration Statement.
 
(d)        The Company will promptly notify each Participating Holder of any stop order issued or threatened by the Commission and, if entered, use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the entry of such stop order or to remove it as soon as reasonably possible.
 
(e)        On or prior to the date on which the Registration Statement is declared effective, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify such Registrable Securities under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Participating Holder reasonably requests and do any and all other lawful acts and things which may be necessary or advisable to enable the Participating Holders to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Registrable Securities, and use commercially reasonable efforts to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective while the Registration Statement effective; , that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this paragraph (e), (ii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (iii) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction.
provided
 
(f)        The Company will notify each Participating Holder, Holders' Counsel and the Underwriter promptly and confirm such notice in writing, (i) when any prospectus, prospectus supplement, post-effective amendment or issuer free writing prospectus has been filed and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective, (ii) of any request by the Commission or any other federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus for additional information to be included in any Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus, (iii) of the issuance by any state securities commission or other regulatory authority of any order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities under state securities or blue sky laws or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, and (iv) of the occurrence of any event that makes any statement made in a Registration Statement or any related prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein untrue in a material way or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement, prospectus, issuer free writing prospectus or documents so that such documents do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements in the Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus not misleading in light of the circumstances in which they were made; and, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), as promptly as practicable thereafter, prepare and file with the Commission a supplement or amendment to such Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus so that such Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and, in the case of clause (iii), use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of such suspension of qualification as promptly as practicable.  Each Participating Holder hereby agrees to keep any disclosures under subsection (iv) above confidential until such time as a supplement or amendment is filed.
(g)        The Company will furnish customary closing certificates and other deliverables to the Underwriter(s) and the Participating Holders and enter into customary agreements satisfactory to the Company (including, if applicable, an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take such other actions as are reasonably required in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities.
 
(h)        The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure the obtaining of all necessary approvals from FINRA.
(i)         The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to furnish to the lead underwriter, addressed to the underwriters, (1) an opinion of counsel for the Company (which may be the Company's General Counsel), dated the effective date of the registration statement and the closing of the sale of any securities thereunder, as well as a consent to be named in the registration statement or any prospectus thereto, and (2) comfort letters as well as an audit opinion and consent to be named in the registration statement or any prospectus relating thereto signed by the Company's independent public accountants who have examined and reported on the Company's financial statements included in the registration statement covering substantially the same matters with respect to the registration statement (and the prospectus or any issuer free writing prospectus included therein) and (in the case of the accountants' comfort letters) with respect to events subsequent to the date of the financial statements, as are customarily covered in opinions of issuer's counsel and in accountants' comfort letters delivered to the underwriters in underwritten public offerings of securities, to the extent that the Company is required to deliver or cause the delivery of such opinion or comfort letters to the underwriters in an underwritten public offering of securities.
 
(j)         The Company shall make available for inspection by any Participating Holder, any underwriter participating in the disposition pursuant to the Registration Statement and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by any such Participating Holder or underwriter, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company, and cause the Company's officers, directors, employees and independent accountants to supply all information reasonably requested by such Participating Holder, underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with the Registration Statement, subject to confidentiality agreements with third persons, matters covered by attorney/client privilege and attorney work product doctrine and protecting proprietary information.
 
Section 2.05          .  The Company may require each Participating Holder to promptly furnish in writing to the Company such information regarding the distribution of the Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request and such other information as may be legally required in connection with such registration, including, without limitation, all such information as may be requested by the Commission.  Each Participating Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the occurrence of any event of the kind described in Section 2.04(f)(ii) through (iv) hereof, such Participating Holder will forthwith discontinue the offering or selling of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement covering such Registrable Securities until such Participating Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus contemplated by Section 2.04(f) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Participating Holder will deliver to the Company all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Participating Holder's possession and retained solely in accordance with record retention policies then-applicable to such Participating Holder, of the most recent prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus covering such Registrable Securities at the time of receipt of such notice.
Participating Holders' Obligations
 
Section 2.06          .
Blackout Provisions
 
(a)        Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, by delivery of written notice to the Participating Holders (a "") stating which one or more of the following limitations shall apply to the addressee of such Suspension Notice, the Company may, if permitted by the provisions of the following sentence, (1) postpone effecting a registration under this Agreement, or (2) require such addressee to refrain from the offering or selling of Registrable Securities under the registration, in either case for a period of no more than 180 consecutive days from the delivery of such Suspension Notice (which period may not be extended or renewed).  The Company may postpone effecting a registration or apply the limitations on dispositions specified in clause 2 of this Section 2.06(a) if (w) the Company in good faith determines that such registration or disposition would materially impede, delay or interfere with any material transaction then pending or proposed to be undertaken by the
Suspension Notice
Company or any of its subsidiaries, (x) the Company in good faith determines that the Company is in possession of material non-public information the disclosure of which during the period specified in such notice the Company reasonably believes would not be in the best interests of the Company, (y) the Company in good faith otherwise determines that it would be materially detrimental to the Company or its security holders for such registration to be effected at such time, or (z) during any Scheduled Black-Out Period (except, in the case of this clause (z), only for the duration of such Scheduled Black-Out Period).
 
(b)        If the Company shall take any action pursuant to clause 2 of Section 2.06(a) with respect to any Participating Holder in a period during which the Company shall be required to cause a Registration Statement to remain effective under the Securities Act and the prospectus to remain current, such period shall be extended for such Person by one (1) day beyond the end of such period for each day that, pursuant to Section 2.06(a), the Company shall require such Person to refrain from the offering or selling of Registrable Securities owned by such Person.
 
Section 2.07          .
Clear Market Periods
 
(a)        In the event of a registration by the Company involving the offering and sale by the Company of equity securities (including without limitation Common Stock) or securities convertible into or exchangeable for its equity securities (including without limitation Common Stock), the Holders agree, if and to the extent requested in writing by the Company (or, in the case of an underwritten public offering, by the managing underwriter or underwriters), not to effect any public sale or distribution (excluding any sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of any securities (except, in each case, as part of the applicable registration, if permitted) which securities are the same as or similar to those being registered in connection with such registration, or which are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for such securities, during the period beginning seven days before, and ending 60 days (or such lesser period as may be permitted by the Company or such managing underwriter or underwriters) after the effective date of the Registration Statement filed in connection with registration; provided that, if such registration is to be effected pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, such 60-day period shall begin upon the earlier of (i) the filing with the SEC of a preliminary prospectus supplement relating to such registration or (ii) the filing of a final prospectus supplement relating to any such registration.
 
(b)        In the case of a registration of a class of Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2.01, the Company agrees, if and to the extent requested in writing by the holders of a majority of such class of Registrable Securities to be sold pursuant to the such registration (or, in the case of an underwritten public offering, by the managing underwriter or underwriters in such underwritten public offering), not to effect (or register for sale) any public sale or distribution of any securities which are the same as or similar to those being registered, or which are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for such securities, during the period beginning seven days before, and ending 60 days (or such lesser period as may be permitted by such holders or such underwriter or underwriters) after the effective date of the Registration Statement filed in connection with registration; provided that, if such registration is to be effected pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, such 60-day period shall begin upon the earlier of (i) the filing with the SEC of a preliminary prospectus supplement relating to such registration or (ii) the filing of a final prospectus supplement relating to any such registration.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may effect a public sale or distribution of securities of the type described above and during the periods described above if the same (A) is made pursuant to registration on Form S-4 or S-8 or any successor form to such forms or (B) as part of any registration of securities for offering and sale to employees or directors of the Company pursuant to any employee stock plan or other employee benefit plan arrangement.
Section 3.01          .  With respect to each Registration which has been effected pursuant to Section 2.01 or Section 2.02, the Company agrees, notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement, to indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, each Participating Holder and each of its managers, members, partners, officers, directors, employees and agents, and each Person, if any, who controls such Participating Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, together with the managers, members, partners, officers, directors, employees and agents of such controlling Person (each such Person being referred to herein as a ""), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, reasonable attorneys' fees, costs and expenses of investigating and defending any such claim (collectively, "") and any action in respect thereof to which such Participating Holder, and any such Covered Person may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such Damages (or proceedings in respect thereof) arise out of, or are based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (including any prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus) (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or (ii) any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus, in light of the circumstances in which they were made) not misleading, and shall reimburse such Participating Holder and each such Covered Person for any legal and other expenses reasonably incurred by such Participating Holder or Covered Person in investigating or defending or preparing to defend against any such Damages or proceedings; , , that the Company shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage, liability (or action or proceeding in respect thereof) or expense arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement, or omission or alleged omission, made or incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement, any such prospectus, issuer free writing prospectus or preliminary prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein, in reliance upon, and in conformity with, written information prepared and furnished to the Company by any Participating Holder or Covered Person for use therein.
Indemnification by the Company
Covered Person
Damages
provided
however
 
Section 3.02          .  Each of the Participating Holders agree, severally but not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its officers, directors, employees, agents, each underwriter and each Person, if any, who controls the Company or any of its subsidiaries within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, together with the managers, members, partners, officers, directors, employees and agents of such Person, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to the Participating Holders, for information related to the Participating Holders or a Covered Person, or their plan of distribution, furnished in writing by the Participating Holders or any Covered Person to the Company for use in any Registration Statement, prospectus or issuer free writing prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any preliminary prospectus.  No Holder shall be required to indemnify any Person pursuant to this Section 3.02 for any amount in excess of the net proceeds of the Registrable Securities sold for the account of such Holder.
Indemnification by the Participating Holders
Section 3.03          .  Promptly after receipt by any Person (an "") of notice of any claim or the commencement of any action in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to Section 3.01 or 3.02, the Indemnified Party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the Person against whom such indemnity may be sought (an ""), notify the Indemnifying Party in writing of the claim or the commencement of such action.  The failure to notify the Indemnifying Party in accordance with the preceding sentence shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Party under
Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
Section 3.01 or 3.02, except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party is prejudiced thereby.  If any such claim or action shall be brought against an Indemnified Party, and it shall notify the Indemnifying Party thereof, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party.  After notice from the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party of its election to assume the defense of such claim or action, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable to the Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable out-of-pocket costs of investigation; , that the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel to represent the Indemnified Party who may be subject to liability arising out of any claim in respect of which indemnity may be sought by the Indemnified Party against the Indemnifying Party, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be for the account of such Indemnified Party unless (i) the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) in the reasonable opinion of counsel to such Indemnified Party representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential conflicts of interest between them, it being understood, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not, in connection with any one such claim or action or separate but substantially similar or related claims or actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (together with appropriate local counsel) at any time for all Indemnified Parties.  No Indemnifying Party shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any claim or pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which the Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability arising out of such claim or proceeding.  Whether or not the defense of any claim or action is assumed by the Indemnifying Party, such Indemnifying Party will not be subject to any liability for any settlement made without its written consent.
provided
 
Section 4.01          .  If requested by the underwriters managing any underwritten offering in which any Registrable Securities are eligible to be sold (without giving effect to any Underwriters' Maximum Number), without the prior written consent of the underwriter for such offering during the period specified by such underwriter, which period shall not exceed fourteen (14) days prior to or sixty (60) days following the effective date of the applicable registration, each Holder will agree with such underwriter and the other holders of Registrable Securities not to transfer any Common Stock or any other equity securities of the Company.
Holdback
Section 4.02          .  The provisions of Section 3 of the Stockholder Agreement will apply to any transfers of Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement or any registered offering.
Limitations on Transfer
 
Section 4.03          .
Suspension of Registration Rights and Termination
 
(a)        The rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall be suspended and of no force and effect during the period from the date hereof until the initial acquisition by the Cascade Parties (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) of "beneficial ownership" (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) of, in the aggregate, fifteen percent (15%) or more of outstanding shares of Common Stock.
(b)        The rights granted under this Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier of (i) the termination of the Stockholder Agreement or (ii) the date that the Registrable Securities represent less than two percent (2%) of the then-outstanding Common Stock.
 
(c)        Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the rights of the Holders and the obligations of the Company under Article II of this Agreement shall be suspended and of no force and effect in the event and for so long as a Cascade Party (as defined in the Stockholder Agreement) is in breach of the terms and conditions of the Stockholder Agreement.
 
Section 4.04          .  This Agreement may be amended, modified and supplemented, and any of the provisions contained herein may be waived, only by a written instrument signed by the Company and each Holder, that the addition of a permitted assign as a Holder hereunder shall not constitute an amendment or modification for purposes of this Section 4.04.
Amendment and Modification
provided
 
Section 4.05          .  The rights and obligations hereunder may be assigned in whole or in part by any Holder to a controlled affiliate of such Holder, effective only for so long as such transferee remains a controlled affiliate of a Holder as of the date hereof (a "") without the consent of the Company or the other Holders.  Such assignment shall be effective upon receipt by the Company of (x) written notice from the Holder certifying that the transferee is a Permitted Transferee, stating the name and address of the Permitted Transferee and identifying the amount of Registrable Securities with respect to which the rights under this Agreement are being transferred, and (y) a written agreement from the Permitted Transferee to be bound by all of the terms of this Agreement.  Upon receipt of the documents referenced in (x) and (y) above, the Permitted Transferee shall thereafter be deemed to be a "Holder" for all purposes of this Agreement.  Except as set forth above, this Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by any party hereto without the prior written consent of each of the other parties hereto.  This Agreement and all of the provisions hereof shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective permitted successors and assigns.  This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding between the parties as to the subject matter hereof and merges and supersedes all prior discussions, agreements and understandings of any and every nature among them with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Assignment; Binding Effect; Entire Agreement
Permitted Transferee
 
Section 4.06          .  In the event that any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof is declared to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected except to the extent necessary to delete such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision unless that provision held invalid shall substantially impair the benefits of the remaining portions of this Agreement.
Severability
 
Section 4.07          .  All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including fax or similar writing) and shall be given to:
Notices
or such other address or fax number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose of giving such notice to such party.  Each such notice, request or other communication shall be deemed to have been received (a) if given by fax, when such fax is transmitted to the fax number specified pursuant to this Section 4.07 and appropriate confirmation is received, or (b) if given by any other means, when delivered in person or by overnight courier.
 
Section 4.08          .  The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Agreement, nor shall they affect their meaning, construction or effect.
Headings
 
Section 4.09          .  This Agreement may be executed via facsimile or electronic transmission and in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original instrument and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
Section 4.10          .  This Agreement, and any dispute arising out of, relating to or in connection with this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws principles.  Each of the parties hereto (a) consents to the exclusive personal jurisdiction and venue in any action to enforce this Agreement in the federal or state courts located in Wilmington, Delaware;  (b) agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court;  and (c) agrees that it shall not bring any action relating to this Agreement in any court other than the federal or state courts located in Wilmington, Delaware.  Each of the parties hereto waives any right to trial by jury with respect to any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  May 7, 2012 Ecolab Inc. announced today that it has entered into a stockholder agreement with Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust related to their investments in Ecolab.  Ecolab has amended its stockholder rights plan so that Cascade and the Foundation Trust would in the future be able to acquire up to 25% of Ecolab's outstanding shares.  Cascade currently holds 27,001,348 shares, or 9.3%, and the Foundation Trust currently holds 4,366,425 shares, or 1.5%, of Ecolab's outstanding shares.
 
Under the agreement, if Cascade and the Foundation Trust own in the aggregate 15% or more of the outstanding Ecolab shares, Cascade and the Foundation Trust have agreed not to seek control of, or encourage others to seek control of, the company or the Board of Directors, and accordingly they will support the Ecolab Board's director nominees as long as a Cascade representative is given the opportunity to serve as a director.  Currently, Michael Larson, Chief Investment Officer for William H. Gates III, and the business manager for Cascade, is an Ecolab director.
 
Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Ecolab's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer commented, saying, "Cascade and the Foundation Trust have a demonstrated record of making significant investments in companies for the long-term and being constructive shareholders.  We have already enjoyed that experience with them over the past two years since they initiated their positions in our company.  We look forward to continuing to work in partnership with all of our shareholders as we work to grow our business and develop further superior returns."
 
The stockholder agreement has been included as an exhibit in Ecolab's current report on Form 8-K, filed May 7, 2012.
 
With 2011 pro forma annualized sales of $11 billion and more than 40,000 employees, Ecolab Inc. (NYSE: ECL) is the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that provide and protect clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments. Ecolab delivers comprehensive programs and services to the food, energy, healthcare, industrial and hospitality markets in more than 160 countries. More Ecolab news and information is available at www.ecolab.com
.
 
Contact:
Michael Monahan
651-293-2809
 
May 7, 2012
 
(ECL-C)
 


