FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20121207091642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
                                       
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On December 6, 2012, the Board of Directors of Ecolab Inc. (the "Company") approved the second amendment (the "Amendment"), effective December 6, 2012, to the Company's Rights Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2006, as amended (the "Rights Agreement"), between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., successor Rights Agent to Computershare Investor Services, LLC.
 
The Amendment accelerates the expiration date of the rights issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement (the "Rights") from March 10, 2016 to December 31, 2012.  Accordingly, as of the close of business on December 31, 2012, the Rights will expire and will no longer be outstanding and the Rights Agreement will terminate as of that time.
 
The foregoing descriptions of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the Amendment attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 1.02
                                          
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 3.03.
                                       
Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03
                                          
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
Upon the expiration of the Rights Agreement and the Rights on December 31, 2012, as described in Item 1.01 above, the Company will file a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware eliminating the Certificate of Designations with respect to the Company's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock which was issuable, under certain circumstances, upon exercise of the Rights.
 
Item 8.01
                                          
Other Events.
 
On December 6, 2012, the Company announced declaration of an increased quarterly cash dividend of $0.23 per share, payable December 28, 2012, to shareholders of record on December 18, 2012.
 
Item 9.01.
                                       
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
         
Exhibits.
 
4.1
                            
Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2012, between Ecolab Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., successor Rights Agent to Computershare Investor Services, LLC.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
This Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement (this "") is dated as of December 6, 2012 (the "") and amends the Rights Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, as amended on May 4, 2012 (the ""), between Ecolab Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., successor Rights Agent to Computershare Investor Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as Rights Agent (the "").  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Rights Agreement.
Amendment
Effective Date
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
 
WHEREAS, on December 6, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company determined it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to amend the Rights Agreement on the terms set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, prior to the Distribution Date, the Company and the Rights Agent may, if the Company so directs, supplement or amend the Rights Agreement without the approval of any holders of certificates representing shares of Common Stock;
 
WHEREAS, the Rights Agent is hereby directed to enter into this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, an officer of the Company has delivered to the Rights Agent a certificate as to the compliance of this Amendment with the terms of Section 27 of the Rights Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the respective agreements set forth herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
                                     
Amendment of the Rights Agreement
.
 
(a)
                                
Section 7(a)(i) of the Rights Agreement is amended and restated to read as follows:
 
"(i) the close of business on December 31, 2012 (the "Final Expiration Date"),"
 
(b)
                                
Exhibit B of the Rights Agreement (Form of Rights Certificate) is hereby amended to replace the words "March 10, 2016" with the words "December 31, 2012" in all places where such words occur.
 
2.
                                     
No Other Amendment; Effect of Amendment
. Except as and to the extent expressly modified by this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto shall remain in full force and effect in all respects without any modification (it being understood that upon the expiration of the Rights in accordance with the terms of the Rights Agreement, as amended hereby, the Rights Agreement shall be terminated and of no further force or effect whatsoever without any further action on the part of the Company or the Rights Agent). This Amendment shall be deemed an amendment to the Rights Agreement and shall become effective on the Effective Date. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this Amendment and the Rights Agreement and the exhibits thereto, the provisions of this Amendment shall govern.
 
3.
                                     
Counterparts
. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. A signature to this Agreement transmitted electronically shall have the same authority, effect, and enforceability as an original signature.
 
4.
                                     
Severability
.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.
 
5.
                                     
Descriptive Headings
. Descriptive headings in this Amendment are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
 
6.
                                     
Further Assurances
. Each of the parties to this Amendment shall cooperate and take such action as may be reasonably requested by the other party in order to carry out the provisions and purposes of this Amendment, the Rights Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder.
 
7.
                                     
Governing Law
. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement as of the date first above written.
 


