FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20121113073124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01              Other Events.
 
On November 9, 2012, Ecolab Inc. received a request for additional information and documentary material, often referred to as a "Second Request," from the United States Department of Justice (the "DOJ") in connection with its Hart-Scott-Rodino regulatory review of Ecolab's proposed merger with Permian Mud Service, Inc. (parent company of Champion Technologies, Inc. and Corsicana Technologies, Inc.), which was announced on October 12, 2012.  Ecolab has been and will continue to work cooperatively with the DOJ and continues to expect the transaction to close by the end of 2012.
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
 
This communication contains statements relating to future events and our intentions, beliefs, expectations and predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words or phrases such as "will likely result," "are expected to," "will continue," "is anticipated," "we believe," "we expect," "estimate," "project," "may," "will," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast" (including the negative or variations thereof) or similar terminology used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions or events generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the expected timing of completion of Ecolab's proposed merger (the "Merger") with Permian Mud Service. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of the company. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in these communications. These risks and uncertainties include (i) the risk that the regulatory approvals or clearances required for the Merger may not be obtained, or that required regulatory approvals may delay the Merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the company or cause the company to abandon the Merger, (ii) the risk that the conditions to the closing of the Merger may not be satisfied, (iii) the risk that a material adverse change, event or occurrence may affect the company or acquired companies prior to the closing of the Merger and may delay the Merger or cause the company to abandon the Merger.
 
Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of the company, the acquired companiesand the combined business. For a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to the company, see the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 and the company's other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. The company does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in expectations, except as required by law.
 
Non-Solicitation
 
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


