FILE:ECL/ECL-8K-20120504170037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CRF 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
.
 
At the annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company held on May 3, 2012, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company to eliminate super-majority voting.  On May 3, 2012, the Company filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware removing the former Article VI in order to eliminate super-majority voting.
 
A copy of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as so amended and restated, is included as Exhibit (3.1) to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.07  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
.
 
Ecolab's Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on May 3, 2012.  A copy of the News Release issued by Ecolab in connection with this report under Item 5.07 is attached as Exhibit (99.1).
 
At the meeting, 88.98% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock were represented in person or by proxy.  The first proposal voted upon was the election of five Class II Directors for a term ending at the annual meeting in 2013. The five persons nominated by our Board of Directors received the following votes and were elected:
 
 
In addition, the terms of office of the following directors continued after the meeting:  Class I Directors for a term ending in 2013  Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Barbara J. Beck, Jerry W. Levin, Robert L. Lumpkins and Mary M. VanDeWeghe; and Class III Directors for a term ending in 2013  Arthur J. Higgins, Joel W. Johnson, C. Scott O'Hara and Daniel S. Sanders.
 
The second proposal voted upon was the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2012.  The proposal received the following votes and was approved:
 
 
 
 
The fourth proposal was an advisory vote to approve the compensation of executives disclosed in the Proxy Statement.  The proposal received the following votes and was approved:
 
 
The fifth proposal was a stockholder proposal requesting the Board of Directors to provide an annual advisory vote on electioneering, political contributions and communication expenditures.  The proposal received the following votes and was not approved:
 
 
The sixth proposal was a stockholder proposal requesting the Board to adopt a rule to redeem any current or future stockholder rights plan unless such plan is submitted to a stockholder vote within 12 months.  The proposal received the following votes and was approved:
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d)
         
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
Ecolab Inc.
, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
 
1.
                                      
The name of the corporation is (the "Corporation").  The original Certificate of Incorporation was filed on February 18, 1924, with the Delaware Secretary of State under the name of Economics Laboratory, Inc.
Ecolab Inc.
 
2.
                                      
This Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and integrates and further amends the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation by eliminating Article VI of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and renumbering Article VII of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation as Article VI.
 
3.
                                      
This Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly proposed by the directors and adopted by shareholders in the manner and by the vote prescribed by Section 242 and duly adopted pursuant to Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
4.
                                      
This Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall be effective upon the filing of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.
 
5.
                                      
The text of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
The name of the Corporation is
Ecolab Inc.
The purposes of the Corporation are to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware, and without limiting the foregoing, to hold shares of the capital stock of other corporations and to engage in services of all kinds, and produce, manufacture, develop, construct, transport, buy, hold, sell and generally deal in products, materials and property, both tangible and intangible.
 
The total number of shares of all classes of capital stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is eight hundred fifteen million (815,000,000) consisting of eight hundred million (800,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of One Dollar ($1.00) per share and fifteen million (15,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value.  The number of authorized shares of any class of capital stock may be increased or decreased by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote.
 
The Board of Directors of the Corporation is granted full and complete authority to fix by resolution or resolutions the designation, and the powers, preferences and rights of the Preferred Stock and any series thereof, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions on such powers, preferences and rights.
 
A series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation is hereby created and the designation, amount thereof and the working powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of the shares of such series, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof are as follows:
 
Section 1.
                                           
Designation and Amount
. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 400,000.
 
Section 2.
                                           
Dividends and Distributions
.
 
(A)
                             
Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock, if any, issued from time to time ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly
 
dividends payable in cash on the fifteenth day of February, May, August and November in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $10.00 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Corporation (the "Common Stock") since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after February 24, 2006 (the "Rights Declaration Date") (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
(B)
                               
The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10.00 per share as such amount may be adjusted pursuant to the last sentence of the preceding paragraph on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
 
(C)
                               
Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time
outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
 
Section 3.
                                           
Voting Rights
. The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
 
(A)
                             
Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
(B)
                               
Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
 
(C)
                               
(i)  If at any time dividends on any Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a "default period") which shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each default period, all holders of Preferred Stock (including holders of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) with dividends in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly dividends thereon, voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect two (2) Directors.
 
(ii)
                       
During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3(C) or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of stockholders, provided that neither such voting right nor the right of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock, if any, to increase, in certain cases, the authorized number of Directors shall be exercised unless the holders of ten percent (10%) in number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy. The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Preferred Stock of such voting right. At any meeting at which the holders of Preferred Stock
 
shall exercise such voting right initially during an existing default period, they shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect Directors to fill such vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to two (2) Directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect two (2) Directors. If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of Directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number. After the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect Directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of Directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
 
(iii)
                    
Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall, during an existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect Directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the President, a Vice President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this paragraph (C) (iii) shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to him at his last address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (C)(iii), no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
 
(iv)
                   
In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and other classes of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to elect the whole number of Directors until the holders of Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect two (2) Directors voting as a class, after the exercise of which right (x) the Directors so elected by the holders of Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in paragraph (C)(ii) of this Section 3) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock which elected the Director whose office shall have become vacant. References in this paragraph (C) to Directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include Directors elected by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.
 
(v)
                      
Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Preferred Stock as a class to elect Directors shall cease, (y) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate, and (z) the number of
Directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (C)(ii) of this Section 3 (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws). Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining Directors.
 
(D)
                              
Except as set forth herein, holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
 
Section 4.
                                           
Certain Restrictions
.
 
(A)
                             
Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
 
(i)
                          
declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock;
(ii)
                       
declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
 
(iii)
                    
redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock; or
 
(iv)
                   
purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
 
(B)
                               
The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
 
Section 5.
                                           
Reacquired Shares
. Any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
 
Section 6.
                                           
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
.
 
(A)
                             
Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have received $1000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the "Series A Liquidation Preference"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the "Common Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 1000 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in subparagraph (C) below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii), the "Adjustment Number"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.
 
(B)
                               
In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of Preferred Stock, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
 
(C)
                               
In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
Section 7.
                                           
Consolidation, Merger, Etc
.  In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
Section 8.
                                           
No Redemption
. The shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
 
Section 9.
                                           
Ranking
.  The Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock which may be issued from time to time as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
 
Section 10.
                                     
Amendment
.  At any time when any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock are outstanding, neither the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation nor this Certificate of Designation shall be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the
 
holders of a majority or more of the outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
 
Section 11.
                                     
Fractional Shares
.  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
 
No stockholder shall have any preemptive right to subscribe to an additional issue of capital stock or to any security convertible into such capital stock.
 
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors. Except to the extent prohibited by law, the Board of Directors shall have the right (which, to the extent exercised, shall be exclusive) to establish the rights, powers, duties, rules and procedures (a) that from time to time shall govern the Board of Directors and each of its members including without limitation the vote required for any action by the Board of Directors, and (b) that from time to time shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation; and Article V notwithstanding, no By-Law shall be adopted by the stockholders of the Corporation which shall impair or impede the implementation of the foregoing.
 
The Board of Directors shall consist of a number of directors, which number shall be determined from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. At the 1983 annual meeting of stockholders, Class I directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the 1984 annual meeting of stockholders, Class II directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the 1985 annual meeting of stockholders, and Class III directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the 1986 annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders following such initial classification and election, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms expire shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a two-year term expiring at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders; (2) at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders; and (3) at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders and each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected for a one-year term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. Pursuant to such procedures, effective as of the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors will no longer be classified under Section 141(d) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of the applicable designation of the powers, preferences and rights made pursuant to Article III, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article IV unless expressly provided by such terms.
 
Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of the then outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause may be filled only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the entire Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of the capital stock then outstanding, (x) until the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders and in accordance with Section 141(k)(1) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and (y) from and after the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause.
 
No director of the Corporation shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty by such director as a director; provided, however, that this Article IV shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this Article IV shall apply to, or have any effect on, the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
 
The Board of Directors may from time to time, by vote of a majority of its members, alter, amend or rescind all or any of the By-Laws of the Corporation, as permitted by law, subject to the power of the stockholders to change or repeal such By-Laws.
The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, Ecolab Inc. has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by Michael C. McCormick, its Corporate Compliance Officer, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, this 3rd day of May, 2012.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.  May 3, 2012  Ecolab Inc. stockholders elected the slate of five director nominees for a term ending in 2013:  Leslie S. Biller, Jerry A. Grundhofer, Michael Larson, Victoria J. Reich and John J. Zillmer.  Each nominee received more than 90% of the shares cast.
 
In other action at today's meeting, the company's stockholders ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Ecolab's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012; approved amendments to the Ecolab Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate super-majority voting; and approved on an advisory basis the compensation of executives disclosed in the proxy statement.  Each of those agenda items received at least 97% of the shares cast.  Also at the meeting, two advisory stockholder proposals were voted upon:  a stockholder proposal requesting the Board of Directors to provide an annual advisory vote on electioneering, political contributions and communication expenditures received less than 5% of the shares cast and was not approved; and a stockholder proposal requesting the Board to adopt a rule to redeem any current or future stockholder rights plan unless such plan is submitted to a stockholder vote within 12 months received 68% of the shares cast and was approved.
 
The final vote tabulation on all matters at today's meeting will be reported to the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and such report will be made available on the company's web site.
 
With 2011 pro forma sales of $11 billion and more than 40,000 employees, Ecolab Inc. (NYSE: ECL) is the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that provide and protect clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments. Ecolab delivers comprehensive programs and services to the food, energy, healthcare, industrial and hospitality markets in more than 160 countries.  For more news and information, visit www.ecolab.com.
Contact:
Michael Monahan
651-293-2809
 
May 3, 2012
(ECL-C)
 


