FILE:HD/HD-8K-20031118071534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 18, 2003 ----------------- THE HOME DEPOT, INC. -------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 1-8207 95-3261426 ---------------------- ---------------------- ---------------- (State or other jurisdiction of (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer incorporation) Identification Number)
2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339-4024 ------------------------------------- ------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (770) 433-8211 -------------- Not applicable -------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On November 18, 2003, The Home Depot, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended November 2, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. THE HOME DEPOT, INC. -------------------------------------- (Registrant) /s/ Carol B. Tome -------------------------------------- Carol B. Tome Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Dated: November 18, 2003
EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT 99.1 THE HOME DEPOT REPORTS RECORD THIRD QUARTER RESULTS RAISES FULL YEAR EARNINGS GUIDANCE - RECORD Q3 NET EARNINGS OF $1.15 BILLION - RECORD Q3 SALES OF $16.6 BILLION - RECORD Q3 DILUTED EPS OF $0.50, +25% OVER YEAR AGO - RECORD AVERAGE TICKET OF $52.10 - SAME STORE SALES INCREASE OF 7.8% - RAISES FULL YEAR EPS GROWTH GUIDANCE TO 15-17% ATLANTA, NOV. 18, 2003 - The Home Depot(R), the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported record third quarter net earnings of $1.15 billion ($0.50 per diluted share) for fiscal 2003, compared with net earnings of $940 million ($0.40 per diluted share) in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. Sales for the quarter increased 14.7 percent to $16.6 billion compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2002. Comparable store sales increased 7.8 percent, the company's best quarterly comp performance since the fourth quarter of 1999. The Home Depot reiterated its annual sales growth guidance of 9-12 percent and raised its full year earnings per share growth guidance to 15-17 percent for the 2003 fiscal year. "Home Depot grew its share of the home improvement industry this quarter, as our sales increased by $2.1 billion, more than any other home improvement retailer," said Bob Nardelli, chairman, president and CEO of The Home Depot. "Our customers are experiencing a better shopping environment as a result of the significant progress we are making in every area of our business. Our continued focus on sales, service and execution is resulting in innovative and distinctive product selection, compelling values, and knowledgeable store associates. Customers know that The Home Depot continues to be the leader in home improvement and our financial results are proof positive that our strategy is working." "We saw strength across the country and across the majority of our selling departments. In some of our most competitive markets we posted double-digit comps driven by growth in the number of customer transactions and the amount of the average ticket," added Nardelli. Customer transactions grew to 313 million for the quarter, up 9.4 percent from the third quarter last year. The company continues to place a high priority on improving customer service through advances in technology. At the end of the quarter, 760 stores had self-checkout stations, with more than 40 million transactions completed during the quarter. "Customer transactions through self-checkout are expected to top 100 million during the first week in December demonstrating strong customer acceptance. This technology allows us to redeploy associates to assist customers throughout the store," said Nardelli. The average ticket grew 4.9 percent to $52.10 from one year ago, the highest average ticket in the company's history. Average ticket increased across the store in categories including -more-
-2- lumber, appliances, outdoor power equipment and building materials. According to The Stevenson Company, The Home Depot sequentially increased its core appliance share more than any other top competitor in the quarter. Sales per square foot increased to $375.45, an increase of 4.2 percent. This achievement reflects a significant improvement from prior quarters. The company's on-going store modernization program, including resets, remodels, and new sign package contributed to this improvement. Collectively, the categories that are being touched are out-performing the company. This fall, the company's marketing showcased its leadership position in how-to and inspirational home improvement projects in catalogs, television, radio, and the re-launch of The Home Depot Web site. On www.homedepot.com, customers are finding it easier to research home improvement projects and shop online. With over 1,640 stores in key locations throughout North America, The Home Depot provides unparalleled access for home improvement customers. During the quarter the company announced the opening of two stores in Manhattan in early 2004 and recently celebrated the opening of its 100th store in Canada. "We are continuing to position the company for future growth. Our service business demonstrated strong performance, growing 45% in the quarter. In the third quarter we completed the acquisition of IPUSA and last week we announced the planned acquisition of RMA, two companies that provide installation services for our customers. Our Home Depot Supply businesses including Your other Warehouse and Maintenance Warehouse collectively grew faster than the total enterprise in the third quarter," said Nardelli. "We are staying on strategy by investing in our associates, our stores and technology as well as returning earnings to our shareholders," commented Nardelli. "We ended the third quarter with $5 billion in cash after spending $2.5 billion for capital expenditures and $890 million for share repurchases and paying $436 million in dividends through the first nine months of the year. Our strong financial condition positions us for future reinvestment and growth." The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today to discuss information included in this news release and related matters at 9 a.m. EDT. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast at www.homedepot.com, and will be available through replay at the www.homedepot.com site under the investor relations' section through Tuesday, November 25, 2003. During the quarter, The Home Depot added 36 new stores. At the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the company operated a total of 1,643 stores, including 1,456 Home Depot stores in the United States, 99 Home Depot stores in Canada, and 17 Home Depot stores in Mexico. The company also operates 54 EXPO Design Centers, five HD Supply stores, 10 HD Landscape Supply stores, and two Home Depot Floor Stores. Home Depot stock is publicly traded (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
-3- Statements of The Home Depot's expectations for total sales growth and earnings performance in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's historical experience and its present expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in and the overall condition of the U.S. economy, stability of costs and availability of sourcing channels, conditions affecting new store development, the company's ability to implement new technologies and processes, the company's ability to attract, train and retain highly-qualified associates, unanticipated weather conditions, and the impact of competition and regulatory and litigation matters. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ### For further information, contact: Financial Community News Media Diane Dayhoff Jerry Shields Vice President of Investor Relations Sr. Public Relations Manager 770-384-2666 770-384-2741 diane_dayhoff@homedepot.com jerry_shields@homedepot.com
THE HOME DEPOT, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS FOR THE THREE AND NINE MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 2003 AND NOVEMBER 3, 2002 (UNAUDITED) (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA AND AS OTHERWISE NOTED)
THE HOME DEPOT, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AS OF NOVEMBER 2, 2003, NOVEMBER 3, 2002 AND FEBRUARY 2, 2003 (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)


