FILE:HD/HD-8K-20050121163525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
Item 8.01      Other Events.
     On January 20, 2005, the Board of Directors of The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") adopted a policy regarding stockholder rights plans. Such policy is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines will accordingly be revised to reflect adoption of this policy.
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 21, 2005
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     The policy of the Board of Directors is that it will obtain prior stockholder approval of any stockholder rights plan, except in the limited circumstances described below. If the Board of Directors adopts a stockholder rights plan, it will do so after careful deliberation and in the exercise of its fiduciary duties.
     The Board of Directors may adopt a stockholder rights plan without obtaining prior stockholder approval if the Board of Directors, including a majority of the independent members of the Board of Directors, determines that, based on then prevailing circumstances, it would be detrimental to the Company and not in the best interests of the Company's stockholders to defer the effectiveness of a stockholder rights plan until stockholder approval may be obtained.
     If a stockholder rights plan is adopted without prior stockholder approval, the plan must be ratified by stockholders within one year after the effective date of the stockholder rights plan. Absent such ratification, the stockholder rights plan will expire on the first anniversary of its effective date.
     The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall review this policy statement annually and recommend any appropriate changes for approval by the Board of Directors.


