FILE:HD/HD-8K-20050224161550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointments of Principal Officers.
       (d) At a meeting of the Board of Directors of The Home Depot, Inc. held on February 24, 2005, Mr. Tom Ridge was elected as a Director of the Company on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Ridge was also appointed to serve as a member of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and IT Advisory Council. The Company's press release announcing this development is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 24, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
      The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today announced the appointment of Tom Ridge, former Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security and former Governor of Pennsylvania, to the company's board of directors.
ATLANTA, February 24, 2005
     "Tom Ridge served his country with great distinction and we are honored to have him join our board where we expect that his unique global experience and perspective will make a profound contribution for our company and our shareholders," said Bob Nardelli, chairman, president & CEO.
     The appointment of Ridge brings the number of directors on The Home Depot board to 13. This includes 12 outside directors, 11 of whom are independent, representing one of the highest percentages of independent directors in corporate America.
     Last month, the company reported that Roger Penske will not stand for re-election to the board after his term expires at the company's next shareholders meeting.
     Founded in 1978, The Home Depot is the world's largest home improvement specialty retailer and the second largest retailer in the United States, with fiscal 2004 sales of $73.1 billion. The company employs approximately 325,000 associates and has 1,892 stores in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, nine Canadian provinces and Mexico. The company recently announced the creation of a business development operation for retail expansion into China. The Home Depot has been recognized by as the #1 Most Admired Specialty Retailer for 2005. Its stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:HD) and is included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
Fortune


