FILE:HD/HD-8K-20050816072907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On August 16, 2005, The Home Depot, Inc. issued a press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2005.
     The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in the Current Report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 16, 2005
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Record Sales of $22.3 billion
l
Record Operating Margin of 12.75%
l
Record Net Earnings of $1.8 billion
l
Record Second Quarter Average Ticket of $57.54
l
     The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported second quarter net earnings of $1.8 billion, $0.82 per diluted share, up 17.1 percent, for the second quarter of fiscal 2005, compared with $1.5 billion, $0.70 per diluted share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2004.
ATLANTA, August 16, 2005 
     Sales for the period increased $2.3 billion, or 11.7 percent to $22.3 billion. Comparable store sales growth was 4.0 percent.
     "I would like to thank our associates for helping us deliver solid performance during the quarter," said Bob Nardelli, chairman, president & CEO. "This quarter we demonstrated our strategy of enhancing our core through various initiatives aimed at improving store efficiency and customer service while executing on expanding our business through The Home Depot Supply to build strong, sustainable platforms for growth."
     "In the second quarter we continued our focus on improving operating efficiencies and drove the highest operating margin in our company's history," said Carol Tom, executive vice president and CFO. At the end of the second quarter, the company reported total assets of $42.7 billion, total stockholders' equity of $25.1 billion and return on invested capital of 23 percent. Since the company's share repurchase program began in late 2002, the company has purchased 250 million shares, or $8.6 billion of its $10 billion share repurchase program.
     The company affirmed its fiscal 2005 sales growth guidance of 9-12 percent and increased its earnings per share growth guidance from 10-14 percent to 14-17 percent.
Enhancing the Core
     The company continues to invest in its stores to improve store efficiency and the overall customer shopping experience. In 2004, the focus was on enhancing the front-end of the store through self-checkout and a new point of sales system. For 2005, the company's focus is to enhance the receiving process. Back-end automated receiving (BEAR) is in over 1,000 stores and will be in all U.S. and Canadian stores by the end of the third quarter. Among other things, this initiative improves operational execution and productivity, enabling the company to reallocate resources to the selling floor.
     Through The Home Depot's approach of adding new, innovative and distinctive merchandise, the company achieved a record second quarter average ticket of $57.54, an increase of 5.1 percent over the prior year.
     "Innovation continues to drive our business through introductions like the new Ryobi One+ power tool system, the new line of Ralph Lauren Metallic paints, Ducane gas grills, Hampton Bay patio furniture and most recently the rollout of LG appliances," said John Costello, executive vice president,
 
Merchandising and Marketing. The company's appliance momentum continued. According to an independent third party, the company's appliance share, on a rolling 12-month basis, increased to 8.8% in the second quarter, a new high and 150 basis points above last year.
Extending the Business
     During the second quarter, the company opened 44 net new stores, including the acquisition of seven Contractors' Warehouse stores in California. As of today, the total store count is 1,940.
     The company's services business grew 28 percent during the second quarter of fiscal 2005. The Home Depot saw strong growth in categories such as roofing, countertops, kitchens, windows and soft flooring. In the second quarter, the company expanded it services platform through the acquisition of Viplex Industries, Inc., a leading company in the window and siding installation market in California.
Expanding the Market
     Over the past four years, the company has expanded its market through The Home Depot Supply. "The acquisitions completed or announced during the second quarter solidify our leadership position by combining exceptional management teams with superior business models and specialized services," said Joe DeAngelo, President, The Home Depot Supply. "We see tremendous potential to continue expanding these businesses while providing unparalleled service to the professional contractor."
     During the second quarter, The Home Depot Supply reported strong double-digit sales growth and represents approximately 4% of the company's total sales. The Home Depot Supply operates on three platforms: Maintenance, Repair and Operations (MRO), Builder and Professional Supply. A schedule outlining The Home Depot businesses within these platforms may be found on www.homedepot.com under the Investor Relations section.
     The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9:00 a.m. EST to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a Web cast and replay at www.homedepot.com under the Investor Relations section.
     During the second quarter of 2005, The Home Depot added 44 net new stores. As of today, the company operates a total of 1,940 stores, which included 1,881 The Home Depot stores with 1,711 stores in the United States, 123 stores in Canada, and 47 stores in Mexico. The company also operates 34 EXPO Design Centers, 11 The Home Depot Landscape Supply stores, two The Home Depot Floor Stores, five The Home Depot Supply stores and seven Contractors' Warehouse stores. The company employs over 325,000 associates. Its stock is publicly traded (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
Certain statements contained herein, including those regarding net sales growth, increases in comparable store sales, impact of cannibalization, commodity price inflation and deflation, implementation of store initiatives, net earnings performance, including depreciation expense and stock-based compensation expense, store openings and closures, capital allocation and expenditures, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, strategic direction and the demand for our products and services, constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on currently available information and are based on our current expectations and projections about future events. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in North America; changes in our cost structure; the availability of sourcing channels consistent with our strategy of differentiation; conditions affecting new store development; conditions affecting customer transactions and average ticket, including, but not limited to, weather conditions; the success of our technology initiatives in improving operations and
 
customers' in-store experience; our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences; the relative success of our expansion strategy, including our ability to integrate acquisitions and create appropriate distribution channels for key sales platforms; our ability to attract, train and retain highly-qualified associates; the impact of new accounting standards; and the impact of competition, decisions by management related to possible asset impairments, regulation and litigation matters. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as they speak only as of the date made. Additional information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties is contained in our periodic filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2005.
 
 
 


