FILE:HD/HD-8K-20061012171532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On October 12, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Mr. Francis S. Blake to serve as the non-voting Vice Chairman of the Board on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Mr. Blake will not serve on any committee of the Board. Mr. Blake currently serves as the Company's Executive Vice President  Business Development & Corporate Operations.
     On October 12, 2006, the Company announced the appointment of Craig Menear, age 49, to the position of Senior Vice President  Merchandising. Mr. Menear's appointment is subject to no fixed term.
     Mr. Menear has been with the Company since 1997. Since August 2003, he has served as Senior Vice President  Merchandising, Hardlines. From 1997 through August 2003, Mr. Menear served in various management and vice president level positions in the Company's Merchandising department.
     Mr. Menear's annual base salary will be $485,000, and he will also be entitled to participate in the Company's Management Incentive Program, which provides an annual incentive target of up to 75% of his base salary, based on achieving established goals. Mr. Menear will also be eligible to participate in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, which provides an incentive target of 50% of his base salary, based on a three-year performance period that begins annually. In connection with his appointment, the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee ("LDCC") approved a special grant of restricted shares having a value of $500,000 to Mr. Menear, effective at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the LDCC, which such shares will vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date.
     In addition to benefits available to all salaried associates of the Company, Mr. Menear will continue to receive the following additional benefits consisting of (i) a $250,000 death benefit only insurance policy and (ii) a benefit allowance of $25,000 in the Company's Supplemental Executive Choice Program (providing for the purchase of additional insurance or the reimbursement of financial services or healthcare expenses), including a payment to partially offset the tax on such amount.
     Upon termination of Mr. Menear's employment by the Company, Mr. Menear is subject to confidentiality restrictions and non-compete and non-solicitation provisions during the 36-month period following the termination of his employment by the Company.
     On October 12, 2006, the Company also announced that Carl Liebert, Executive Vice President  Home Depot Stores, has resigned from the Company.
     A copy of this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 12, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
      The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today is announcing several changes in its retail organization that are designed to streamline decision making, enhance in-store execution and further increase the Company's focus on the customer. The following executives will report to Bob Nardelli, chairman, president & CEO, effective immediately:
ATLANTA, Oct. 12, 2006
     Also, in addition to her current financial duties, Carol Tom, EVP & CFO, will assume responsibility for supporting store operations, including asset protection and the Company's customer service initiatives. Tom is an 11-year Company veteran and has served as EVP & CFO since May 2001.
     Further, the Company's board of directors has elected Frank Blake, EVPBusiness Development & Corporate Operations, as vice chairman and non-voting member of the board. In his capacity as vice chairman, Blake will continue to oversee real estate, construction, credit services, strategic business development, growth initiatives and the Home Services business, while assisting in other strategic corporate initiatives and supporting Nardelli in various external relations matters. As a non-voting member of the Board, Blake will not vote on any matters or serve on any board committees. Blake joined The Home Depot in 2002, and previously served as deputy secretary for the U.S. Department of Energy.
     The Home Depot also is announcing that Carl Liebert, EVPHome Depot Stores, and Bill Lennie, SVPMerchandising  Dcor, have decided to leave the organization to pursue opportunities outside of the home improvement industry. The Company thanks both Carl and Bill for their contributions, and wishes them well in the future.
 
     "The changes announced today, along with our recent reinvestment in our retail operations, will help us meet the challenges posed by the uncertain economy over the next several months," said Bob Nardelli.
     "In listening to feedback from front-line associates over the past few months, it is clear that a more direct and focused management of store operations and related functions will further empower our stores to better serve our customers and gain market share in a challenging business environment."
     In August, The Home Depot announced an accelerated retail investment of $350 million in the back half of the year, which includes merchandising resets, the completion of self-checkout installation in all stores by year end, and additional investments in labor hours and store modernization. In addition, the Company's board of directors also authorized in August an additional $3.5 billion to repurchase outstanding shares, bringing the total authorized share repurchase program to $17.5 billion.
The Home Depot is the world's largest home improvement specialty retailer, with 2,094 retail stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, 10 Canadian provinces and Mexico. Through its HD Supply businesses, The Home Depot is also one of the largest diversified wholesale distributors in the United States, with nearly 1,000 locations in the United States and Canada offering products and services for building, improving and maintaining homes, businesses and municipal infrastructures. In fiscal 2005, The Home Depot had sales of $81.5 billion and earnings of $5.8 billion. The Company employs approximately 355,000 associates and has been recognized by magazine as the No. 1 Most Admired Specialty Retailer and the No. 13 Most Admired Corporation in America for 2006. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index. HDG
SM
FORTUNE


