FILE:HD/HD-8K-20070814161758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.     Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 10, 2007, The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation and certain of their affiliates (the "Lenders") amended the Commitment Letter, dated July 9, 2007 (the "Commitment Letter"), entered into in connection with the Company's offer to purchase up to 250 million shares of its common stock. The Company and the Lenders amended paragraph (f) of the Commitment Letter to provide that the Company's corporate credit ratings shall be rated BBB+ or better by S&P and Baa1 or better by Moody's, and neither ratings organization shall have announced a reduction below such ratings.
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 14, 2007, the Company issued a press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended July 29, 2007.
The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in Item 2.02 of this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 5.04.     Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
On August 14, 2007, the Company sent an updated notice to its directors and executive officers informing them that the previously announced blackout period with respect to The Home Depot FutureBuilder and The Home Depot FutureBuilder For Puerto Rico in connection with the Company's tender offer that commenced on July 10, 2007 has been amended. The blackout period will now begin as of the close of market on August 30, 2007 and end during the week of September 14, 2007. A copy of the updated notice, which includes the information specified in Rule 104(b) of Regulation BTR, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. To administer the tender of plan shares, tendering participants will be temporarily prevented from engaging in transactions in Company common stock in their individual accounts under the plans.
During the blackout period and for a period of two years after the ending date of the blackout period, security holders or other interested persons may obtain, without charge, information about the actual beginning and ending dates of the blackout period by contacting Tim Crow, Executive Vice PresidentHuman Resources, in writing, at The Home Depot, 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 14, 2007
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 The Home Depot , the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported fiscal 2007 second quarter consolidated net earnings of $1.6 billion, or $0.81 per diluted share, compared with $1.9 billion, or $0.90 per diluted share, in the same period in fiscal 2006.
ATLANTA, August 14, 2007
Earnings from continuing operations in the fiscal 2007 second quarter were $1.5 billion, or $0.77 per diluted share, compared to fiscal 2006 second quarter earnings from continuing operations of $1.7 billion, or $0.82 per diluted share. The Company is now reflecting the results of HD Supply as a discontinued operation. Earnings from discontinued operations were $66 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, compared to $161 million, or $0.08 cents per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Included in earnings from discontinued operations is a discrete tax charge of approximately $60 million related to the disposition of HD Supply. Excluding this discrete charge, adjusted earnings from discontinued operations were approximately $126 million.
Sales for the second quarter totaled $22.2 billion, a 1.8 percent decrease from the second quarter of fiscal 2006, reflecting negative comparable store sales of 5.2 percent, offset in part by sales from new stores.
"While the challenging housing market continues to present us with a tough selling environment, our financial performance was in line with our expectations," said Frank Blake, chairman & CEO. "I want to thank our associates and our vendor partners for their hard work and the progress they continue to make in executing against our key priorities."
"We believe the housing and home improvement markets will remain soft into 2008; we will continue to invest thoughtfully for the long-term health of the business," said Blake.
Fiscal Year 2007 Financial Outlook
The Company reiterated in its earnings outlook that it expects its earnings per share from continuing operations to decline by 1215 percent for fiscal 2007. Consolidated earnings per share are expected to decline by 1518 percent for fiscal 2007.
 
The fiscal 2007 earnings per share outlook reflects 52 weeks and does not include the impact of the 53rd week. The Company will have 53 weeks of operating results in its fiscal 2007 financial results. The Company projects that the 53rd week will add approximately three cents to its earnings per share outlook for fiscal 2007. Additionally, the Company's earnings per share outlook does not include any impact of the sale of HD Supply or any earnings per share accretion arising from the Company's announced $22.5 billion recapitalization plan.
Pending Sale of HD Supply
On August 9, 2007, The Home Depot announced that it was in discussions with affiliates of Bain Capital Partners, The Carlyle Group and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice for the purpose of restructuring the previously announced agreement for the sale of HD Supply. These discussions could result, among other things, in material changes to the terms and financing of the transaction, including a reduction in the $10.325 billion purchase price .
Update on Tender Offer
The tender offer is part of the Company's overall $22.5 billion recapitalization strategy which contemplates a sale of HD Supply for approximately $10.3 billion. As previously announced, the Company is in discussions with respect to the restructuring of the sale of HD Supply and is carefully watching today's turbulent financial markets. The Company will continue to assess financial market conditions and the impact of any restructured HD Supply transaction, or failure to complete that transaction, on its overall recapitalization plan and on the terms of the tender offer part of that plan.
The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at homedepot.com in the Investor Relations section.
At the end of the second quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,200 retail stores, which included 1,923 The Home Depot stores in the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands), 157 stores in Canada, 63 stores in Mexico, and 12 stores in China. The Company also operates 34 EXPO Design Center locations, and 11 The Home Depot Landscape Supply stores. The Company employs approximately 364,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
To provide clarity, internally and externally, about the operating performance of HD Supply in the most recent fiscal quarter, the Company supplemented the reporting of earnings for discontinued operations with a non-GAAP measure, adjusted earnings for discontinued operations. This supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the GAAP measure of earnings for discontinued operations. The Company believes that this non-GAAP measure provides management
 
and investors with meaningful information that assists in clearly understanding and analyzing HD Supply's earnings in the most recent fiscal quarter.
This communication is for information purposes only and does not constitute an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell shares of The Home Depot's common stock. The Home Depot's offer to buy shares of Home Depot common stock is being made only pursuant to the Offer to Purchase, dated July 10, 2007, as amended by the supplement to the Offer to Purchase and the related materials dated August 10, 2007, as amended and supplemented from time to time. Shareholders should read these materials carefully because they contain important information. Shareholders may obtain copies of these and other documents filed with the SEC at the Commission's Web site at
www.sec.gov
. Shareholders also may obtain a copy of these documents, without charge, from the information agent, D. F. King & Co., Inc., by calling toll-free: 800-628-8536.
Certain statements contained herein, including any statements related to comparable store sales, the state of the home improvement market, the state of the housing market, the sale of HD Supply, the planned recapitalization of the Company, continuation of reinvestment plans and resulting short- term pressure on earnings, and sales growth, operating margin, earnings and earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2007, constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on currently available information and are based on our current expectations and projections about future events. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in North America; the divestiture of HD Supply, including the outcome of the discussions regarding the possible restructuring of the sale and the timing of the close of such transaction; the success of the tender offer; conditions affecting customer transactions and average ticket, including, but not limited to, weather conditions; and improving and streamlining operations and customers' in-store experience. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as they speak only as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except as may be required by law. Additional information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties is contained in our periodic filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2007.
 
Note: Amounts in Diluted Earnings Per Share may not foot due to rounding.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
We advised you by notice dated July 13, 2007 that directors and executive officers may be prevented from buying or selling the Company's common stock from the close of market on August 15, 2007 through the week ending August 31, 2007. This is due to a "affecting participants in The Home Depot FutureBuilder and The Home Depot FutureBuilder For Puerto Rico during that period caused by our self tender offer.
blackout period"
Due to our announcement last week of the new price range and related extension of the expiration date for the self tender offer, these dates have now changed. Directors and executive officers may now be prevented from buying or selling the Company's common stock from the close of market on through the week ending . All other aspects of the prior notice still apply, a copy of which is attached for your convenience.
August 30, 2007
September 14, 2007
Once we know how many plan participants have tendered shares, we will promptly notify you whether or not trading restrictions will be required. Should you have any questions in the interim regarding the blackout period and related trading restrictions, please do not hesitate to contact either me at 770-384-2328, or Jack at 770-384-5535, or to either of us by mail at The Home Depot, 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339.


