FILE:HD/HD-8K-20070206160516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
     On February 5, 2007, The Home Depot, Inc. (the "") and Relational Investors, LLC (""), entered into a Letter Agreement pursuant to which David H. Batchelder, a principal of Relational, will be elected to the Company's Board of Directors on February 22, 2007. Mr. Batchelder will also be appointed to the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee and to the Audit Committee.
Company
Relational
     Relational and the Company have agreed that for the next three years, so long as Relational continues as a significant shareholder of the Company, the Board will nominate and support Mr. Batchelder for election as a director or, if he is not available to serve, another person recommended by Relational, and Relational will support each slate of directors nominated by the Board. Relational will not support or participate in any "withhold the vote" or similar campaign, Relational will not nominate any candidates for election to the Board, and Relational will not make any proposals or conduct any proxy solicitations. There is no agreement with respect to what position Mr. Batchelder or Relational will take on any other matters, or how he or it will vote on any other matters.
     Relational has agreed to withdraw its previously submitted proposal and notices with respect to the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which proposal and notices are described in proxy materials filed by the Company on December 18, 2006.
     The Company also reiterated that the retirement age for directors Kenneth G. Langone, Milledge A. Hart, III, John L. Clendenin, and Claudio X. Gonzlez will not be extended beyond the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. In identifying successors for these four directors, the Board will seek input from the Company's shareholders.
     A copy of the letter agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
     Mr. Batchelder upon election to the Board will be eligible to participate in the non-management director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2006 proxy statement and Form 8-K filed on August 19, 2005.
     In connection with the foregoing, the Company issued a press release which is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)     
Exhibits
          99.1          Letter agreement between the Company and Relational effective as of February 5, 2007.
          99.2          Press Release dated February 5, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 6, 2007
 
Exhibit

 
Exhibit 99.1
Mr. David H. Batchelder Mr. Ralph V. Whitworth Relational Investors, L.L.C. 12400 High Bluff Drive, Suite 600 San Diego, California 92130
Dear Messrs. Batchelder and Whitworth:
     The following sets forth the agreement between Relational Investors, L.L.C. and its affiliates ("Relational") and The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company"):
 
Meeting.
If you are in agreement please sign below.
Accepted and agreed as of the date set forth above.
RELATIONAL INVESTORS, LLC

 
Exhibit 99.2
      The Home Depot and Relational Investors, LLC announced today that they have reached an agreement on corporate governance matters. As part of the agreement, David H. Batchelder, a principal of Relational, will join The Home Depot board of directors on February 22, 2007, and Relational has agreed to drop its proxy contest. Batchelder also will be appointed to the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee and to the Audit Committee.
ATLANTA, February 5, 2007
     In announcing the agreement, Ralph Whitworth, Principal of Relational and Frank Blake, chairman and CEO of The Home Depot, said, "We are very pleased to have reached this understanding, which will give The Home Depot the benefit of Relational's strategic business advice without a costly and distracting proxy solicitation by Relational."
     Relational and the Company have agreed that for the next three years, so long as Relational continues as a significant shareholder of the Company, the Board will nominate and support Batchelder or, if he is not available to serve, another person recommended by Relational, as a director, and Relational will support each slate of directors nominated by the Board. Relational will not support or participate in any "withhold the vote" or similar campaign; Relational will not nominate any candidates for election to the Board; and Relational will not submit proxy resolutions or conduct any proxy solicitations. There is no agreement with respect to what position Batchelder or Relational will take on any other matters, or how he or it will vote on any other matters.
     "We have been actively listening to our shareholders and look forward to continuing the dialogue," said Blake. "The Board has taken action, and we welcome David's strategic input in our endeavors to move this company forward to the benefit of all our associates, customers and shareholders."
     Today's agreement follows actions taken by Relational in December 2006 to solicit proxies for a resolution to be brought before The Home Depot's annual meeting seeking an independent committee to evaluate strategy and to elect nominees of Relational to the Home Depot Board, and subsequent discussions between Blake and a committee of the Company's directors and Batchelder and Whitworth of Relational. Under the agreement, Relational has withdrawn its resolution and will not solicit proxies at this year's annual meeting.
     "We commend the Board for demonstrating accountability and responsibility in responding to, and collaborating with, shareholders like Relational," said Batchelder. "We are encouraged by actions already initiated by Frank Blake and the Board such as store reinvestment and corporate governance improvements. We look forward to working together to further strengthen the business and deliver strong returns to all shareholders."
     Under the Agreement, the Company reiterated its commitment that the retirement age for directors Kenneth G. Langone, Milledge A. Hart, III, John L. Clendenin, and Claudio X. Gonzlez will not be extended beyond the 2008 Annual Meeting. The retirement age was waived for Hart, Clendenin and Gonzlez for the 2007 term. This decision was made in order to retain the board members' experience and deep knowledge of the Company's business and key personnel to help ensure a smooth management transition after the appointment of Mr. Blake as the Company's new chairman and CEO on January 3, 2007. Also, in identifying successors for these directors, the Board will seek input from the Company's shareholders.
     Batchelder is a director of Washington Group International and ConAgra Foods, Inc. He has served on seven other public company boards during his 25-year career influencing corporate strategy and assisting management teams unlock value.
 
About The Home Depot
The Home Depot is the world's largest home improvement specialty retailer, with 2,127 retail stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, 10 Canadian provinces, Mexico and China. Through its HD Supply businesses, The Home Depot is also one of the largest diversified wholesale distributors in the United States, with nearly 1,000 locations in the United States and Canada offering products and services for building, improving and maintaining homes, businesses and municipal infrastructures. In fiscal 2005, The Home Depot had sales of $81.5 billion and earnings of $5.8 billion. The Company employs approximately 355,000 associates and has been recognized by magazine as the No. 1 Most Admired Specialty Retailer and the No. 13 Most Admired Corporation in America for 2006. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
SM
FORTUNE
About Relational Investors
Relational, which owns approximately 26.5 million shares of the Company, is a private investment advisor with $7.5 billion under management. Founded by Batchelder and Whitworth, Relational manages assets for major institutional investors from the United States, Europe and Asia. Relational applies various tactics, including board representation, designed to improve shareholder value by constructively influencing the corporate strategy, governance and operations of its portfolio companies.


