FILE:HD/HD-8K-20071115171224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
Item 5.02.   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On November 8, 2007, Helen Johnson-Leipold informed the Company that she is resigning from the Company's Board of Directors effective November 15, 2007. Ms. Johnson-Leipold did not cite any disagreement on any matter relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices.
(b)
                                
 
Effective November 15, 2007, the Board of Directors elected Mr. Duane Ackerman, Mr. Ari Bousbib and Ms. Karen Katen as directors of the Company on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
(d)
                                
 
Mr. Ackerman will serve on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Infrastructure Committee. Mr. Bousbib will serve on the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee and the Infrastructure Committee. Ms. Katen will serve on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Infrastructure Committee.
 
Mr. Ackerman, Mr. Bousbib and Ms. Katen will participate in the standard non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2007 proxy statement as amended by the Board on August 16 and described in the Form 8-K filed on August 20, 2007.
 
The Company's press release announcing these developments is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On November 15, 2007, the Company's Leadership Development and Compensation Committee amended the Form of Non-Employee Directors Deferred Share Award to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
(e)
                                 
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This Deferred Share Award (the "") is made as of the <DAY> day of <MONTH>, <YEAR> by THE HOME DEPOT, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "") to NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTOR'S NAME ("").
Award
Company
<
>
Director
 
, the Company has adopted The Home Depot, Inc. 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the "") which is administered by the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the ""); and
WHEREAS
Plan
Committee
 
, Director is a member of the Board of Directors (the "") eligible to receive grants of Awards under the Plan; and
WHEREAS
Board
 
, the Board has approved the grant to Director of this award of deferred shares under the terms of the Plan representing Director's annual stock retainer for service on the Board (the "") and to promote Director's long-term interests in the success of the Company; and
WHEREAS
Award
 
,to comply with the terms of the Plan and to further the interests of the Company and Director, the Company herein sets forth the terms of such award in writing, as follow;
WHEREAS
 
. The Company hereby grants to Director an award of              shares of the $.05 par value common stock of the Company, subject to the conditions set forth herein. Such shares are hereinafter referred to as the "."
1.
                                      
Stock Award
Deferred Shares
 
A stock certificate representing the Deferred Shares (including any additional Deferred Shares to which Director becomes entitled as a result of the adjustments described in Section 3) shall be transferred to Director upon the earlier of (i) the date on which Director ceases to be a member of the Board by reason of his or her death, retirement or disability; or (ii) the first anniversary of the date on which Director ceases to be a member of the Board for any reason other than death, retirement or disability; or (iii) the date on which the Director ceases to be a member of the Board for any reason within six (6) months following the date of Change in Control of the Company (as defined in Section 7). For purposes of this Award, (i) Director shall be considered to have retired if he or she ceases to be a member of the Board during or after the calendar year in which he or she attains age seventy-two (72); (ii) disability shall have the meaning set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and the regulations thereunder; and (iii) Director shall be considered to have ceased to be a member of the Board on the date he or she incurs a "separation from service" as defined under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and the regulations thereunder.
2.
                                      
.
Delivery of Shares
. Upon the payment of any cash dividend on shares of common stock of the Company before the issuance of a stock certificate representing the Deferred Shares, the number of Deferred Shares shall be increased by the number obtained by dividing (x) the aggregate amount of the dividend that would be payable if each Deferred Share were issued and outstanding and entitled to dividends on the dividend payment date, by (y) the Fair Market Value of the common stock on the dividend payment date. The number of Deferred Shares shall also be entitled to such adjustments as are determined by the Committee under Section 11 of the Plan.
3.
                                      
Adjustments for Dividends
 
. Upon the issuance of a stock certificate representing the Deferred Shares, Director shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Deferred Shares, including the right to vote the shares and to receive all dividends or other distributions paid or made available with respect to such shares. Before the delivery of such stock certificate, Director shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Deferred Shares.
4.
                                      
Stockholder Rights
 
The Company shall not be required to issue any fractional shares pursuant to this Award, and the Committee may round fractions down.
5.
                                      
.
Fractional Shares
 
. In addition to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Award is subject to and governed by the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Unless the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms used in this Award shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Award and the Plan, the Plan shall control.
6.
                                      
Plan Provisions
 
. For purposes of this award, "Change in Control" means a change in ownership or effective control, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, as follows:
7.
                                      
Change in Control
 
. A change in ownership of the Company shall occur on the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company. However, if any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, is considered to own more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition of additional stock by the same persons or persons is not considered to cause a change in the ownership of the Company or to cause a change in the effective control of the Company. An increase in the percentage of stock owned by any one person, or persons acting as a group, as a result of a transaction in which the Company acquires its stock in exchange for property will be treated as an acquisition of stock for purposes of this section. This subsection applies only when there is a transfer of stock (or issuance of stock) and stock remains outstanding after the transaction.
(a)
                                 
Change in Ownership
 
A change in the effective control of the Company shall occur on (i) the date any one person, or more than one person acting as a group,
(b)
                                
.
Change in Effective Control
 
acquires (or has acquired during the twelve (12)-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of the Company possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company; or (ii) the date a majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any twelve (12)-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board before the date of the appointment or election.
 
A change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets shall occur on the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the twelve (12)-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than fifty percent (50%) of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately before such acquisition or acquisitions. For this purpose, gross fair market value means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets. A change in control does not occur when there is a transfer to a related entity, as described in the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 409A.
(c)
                                 
.
Change in the Ownership of a Substantial Portion of the Company's Assets
 
This Section 7 shall be subject to and interpreted in accordance with applicable Treasury Regulations and other guidance describing a "change in control event" for purposes of Code Section 409A.
 
.
8.
                                      
Miscellaneous
 
. The granting of this Award shall not give Director any rights to similar grants in future years or any right to be retained in the employ or service of the Company or to interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate Director's services at any time or the right of Director to terminate his or her services at any time.
(a)
                                 
Limitation of Rights
 
. The rights of Director hereunder shall be that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company, and Director shall not have any security interest in any assets of the Company. Director shall have only the Company's unfunded, unsecured promise to issue shares of the Company's common stock in the future pursuant to this Award.
(b)
                                
Rights Unsecured
 
. No right of Director hereunder shall be subject to alienation, transfer, sale, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment or encumbrance of any kind. Any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber any such payments whether presently or thereafter payable shall be void.
(c)
                                 
Nontransferability/Nonalienability
 
. This Award is intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A and shall be construed accordingly. The Company in its discretion may delay the issuance of Deferred Shares or take any other action it deems necessary to
(d)
                                
Code Section  409A Compliance
comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A, including amending this Award, without Director's consent, in any manner it deems necessary to cause the Award to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
 
. Any lawsuit with respect to any matter arising out of or relating to this Award must be filed no later than one (1) year after the date that the Company denies the claim made by Director or any earlier date that the claim otherwise accrues.
(d)
                                
Limitation of Actions
 
Company may deduct from amounts otherwise payable under this Award all amounts owed by Director to Company and its affiliates to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
(e)
                                 
.
Offset
 
. This Award shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Georgia (without giving effect to the choice of law principles) and any action arising out of or related thereto shall be brought in either the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Atlanta Division, or the Superior Court of Cobb County, Georgia.
(f)
                                   
Controlling Law
 
. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in the Award is held by a court or a federal regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained in the Award shall remain in full force and effect, and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.
(g)
                                
Severability
 
. The Award contains the entire understanding between the parties and supersedes any prior understanding and agreements between them representing the subject matter hereof. There are no representations, agreements, arrangements or understandings, oral or written, between and among the parties hereto relating to the subject matter hereof which are not fully expressed herein.
(h)
                                
Construction
 
. Section and other headings contained in the Award are for reference purposes only and are in no way intended to describe, interpret, define or limit the scope, extent or intent of the Award or any provision hereof.
(i)
                                    
Headings
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
ATLANTA, November 15, 2007 
The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today announced that its board of directors declared a third quarter cash dividend of 22.5 cents per share.  The dividend is payable on December 13 to shareholders of record on the close of business on November 29.
 
This is the 83rd consecutive quarter the Company has paid a cash dividend and reflects the board's continued commitment to creating shareholder value.  Since 2002, the Company has returned $32.6 billion to shareholders through $5.4 billion in dividends paid and $27.2 billion in share repurchases.  Since the inception of its share repurchase program in 2002, the Company has repurchased 743 million shares, which is 32 percent of its outstanding shares.
 
New Board Members
The Home Depot today announced the appointments of F. Duane Ackerman, 65, Ari Bousbib, 46, and Karen Katen, 59, to the Company's board of directors.
 
These appointments are a part of the Company's planned succession process to replace four existing board members, John L. Clendenin, 73, Claudio X. Gonzales, 73, Milledge A. Hart III, 73, and Kenneth G. Langone, 72, who are scheduled to retire from the board in May 2008.  Also, today the Company is announcing that Helen Johnson-Leipold, 50, has resigned from the board due to additional demands on her time.
 
"We could not be more pleased to have executives of this caliber join our board," said Frank Blake, chairman & CEO.  "Each of these individuals brings top-notch skills and experience in areas such as corporate governance, consumer focus, business development and strategy.  Lastly, I would like to thank Helen Johnson-Leipold for her service as a director during the past year."
 
F. Duane Ackerman is the retired chairman and chief executive officer of the BellSouth Corporation.  Mr. Ackerman began his communications career in 1964 and was named president and chief executive officer of BellSouth Telecommunications, the enterprise's largest subsidiary, in 1992.  Mr. Ackerman was then promoted to vice chairman and chief operating officer of the parent company, BellSouth Corporation, in 1995.  He was then elevated to the position of president and chief executive officer of BellSouth in 1997.  One year later, the board added the chairman's responsibilities to Mr. Ackerman and he served as chairman and chief executive officer until BellSouth's merger with AT&T in December 2006.  A resident of Atlanta, Mr. Ackerman is an active member within the community where his civic commitments include membership on the board of the Georgia Research Alliance and the Woodruff Arts Center.
 
Ari Bousbib is the president of Otis Elevator Company, a unit of United Technologies Corp. and the world's largest manufacturer, installer, and servicer of elevators, escalators, moving walkways and other horizontal transportation systems.  He has held this position since 2002.  Previously, Mr. Bousbib was Otis' chief operating officer from 2000 to 2002.  Before
joining Otis, he held several leadership positions for the parent company, including vice president, Corporate Strategy and Development.  Prior to joining United Technologies, he was a partner with Booz Allen Hamilton.  He joined that firm in 1987 and was elected to its partnership in 1992.
 
Karen Katen currently serves as chairman of the Pfizer Foundation, and recently retired as vice chairman of Pfizer Inc. and as president of Pfizer Human Health, the company's principal operating group.  Ms. Katen joined Pfizer in 1974 and has held numerous leadership roles within the organization until her retirement earlier this year.  In 1993, she was named executive vice president of Pfizer U.S. Pharmaceuticals and she was promoted to president of that same business unit in 1995.  During 2001, she was named president of Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group, the global pharmaceutical unit of Pfizer, and was elected executive vice president of Pfizer.  She was elected vice chairman of Pfizer in 2005.
 
With today's announcement, The Home Depot's board currently consists of 14 members, with 13 of them being outside directors.
 
The Home Depot is the world's largest home improvement specialty retailer, with 2,221 retail stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, 10 Canadian provinces, Mexico and China. In fiscal 2006, The Home Depot had sales from continuing operations of $79.0 billion and earnings from continuing operations of $5.3 billion. The Company employs approximately 350,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
 
For more information, contact:
 
 


