FILE:HD/HD-8K-20080520070314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
FORM 8-K
 
2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 30339
Not Applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 20, 2008, The Home Depot, Inc. issued a press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 2008.
 
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATLANTA, May 20, 2008
 The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported fiscal 2008 first quarter consolidated net earnings of $356 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared with $1.0 billion, or $0.53 per diluted share, in the same period in fiscal 2007.  These results reflect a nonrecurring charge of $543 million due to the recently announced closing of 15 stores and removal of 50 stores from the future growth pipeline.  Excluding this nonrecurring charge, the Company reported consolidated net earnings of $697 million, or $0.41 per diluted share.
 
Sales for the first quarter totaled $17.9 billion, a 3.4 percent decrease from the first quarter of fiscal 2007, reflecting negative comparable store sales of 6.5 percent, offset in part by sales from new stores.  Due to the 14 week in the fourth quarter of 2007, first quarter benefited from a seasonal timing change that added approximately $536 million to sales.
th
 
"The housing and home improvement markets remained difficult in the first quarter; in fact, conditions worsened in many areas of the country," said Frank Blake, chairman & CEO.  "I want to thank our associates for their hard work in a tough environment.  We will continue to invest wisely in our core retail business to earn our customers' confidence and ensure the long-term health of our business."
 
"In addition, our decision to close stores and remove planned stores from our pipeline demonstrates our commitment to disciplined capital allocation. This discipline and reinvestment in our existing stores will benefit our shareholders, associates and customers," said Blake.
 
On June 5th at 8 a.m. ET, the Company will hold its Investor and Analyst Conference to update the investment community on key areas of the business.  All presentations will be webcast live at homedepot.com in the Investor Relations section.
 
The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters.  The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at homedepot.com in the Investor Relations section.
 
At the end of the first quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,258 retail stores, which included 1,970 The Home Depot stores in the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands and the territory of Guam), 166 stores in Canada, 69 stores in Mexico, 12 stores in China, as well as 2 THD Design Centers, 5 Yardbirds stores and 34 EXPO Design Center locations. The Company employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on
 
 
 
 
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
 
To provide clarity about the Company's operating performance for the recently completed fiscal quarter, the Company has supplemented its reporting with non-GAAP measurements to reflect the store rationalization charge. This supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measurements.  The Company believes that such non-GAAP measures provide management and investors with meaningful information to understand and analyze the Company's performance.
 
Certain statements contained herein, including any statements related to the state of the home improvement market, the state of the construction and housing markets, and our reinvestment plans, constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. While these statements are based on currently available information and current expectations and projections about future events, such forward-looking statements may prove to be incorrect. Risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to: economic conditions in North America; changes in our cost structure; our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates; conditions affecting customer transactions and average ticket, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, improving and streamlining operations, and customers' in-store experience. Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as they speak only as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except as may be required by law. Additional information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties is contained in our periodic filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2008.
 
###
 
For more information, contact
:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes continuing operations only.
 
(2) Includes depreciation of distribution centers and tool rental equipment included in Cost of Sales and amortization of deferred financing costs included in Interest Expense.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


