FILE:HD/HD-8K-20080528171750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On May 22, 2008, shareholders of the Company approved the material terms of officer performance goals under the Company's Management Incentive Plan ("MIP").  MIP awards that are intended to be exempt from the deduction limitation of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) will be based on one or more performance objectives, as more fully described in the Company's Proxy Statement filed on April 11, 2008. The Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors selects the key associates eligible to participate in the MIP and establishes the performance objectives that pertain to each participant's awards. The target and maximum bonus payout levels are determined as a percentage of the participant's base salary. The Committee may provide for a threshold level of performance below which no compensation will be paid and a maximum level of performance above which no additional compensation will be paid, and it may provide for the payment of differing amounts of compensation for different levels of performance. Potential payouts under the MIP for named executive officers range from $60,000 at threshold performance to $2,200,000 at maximum performance.  The maximum amount of performance-based compensation that may be paid to any participant in the MIP in any one fiscal year is 0.3% of the Company's net income for such fiscal year. This limitation may not be increased without shareholder approval.
 
On May 27, 2008, the Company entered into a Separation Agreement and Release (the "Separation Agreement") with Robert P. DeRodes, Executive Vice President-Chief Information Officer, in exchange for non-competition, non-solicitation, non-disparagement, confidentiality and cooperation covenants in favor of the Company, and Mr. DeRodes' execution of a general release of claims against the Company. Mr. DeRodes has the right to terminate the Separation Agreement within seven days of May 27, 2008.
 
The Separation Agreement also provides that, in addition to the separation payments provided by the Employment Agreement between Mr. DeRodes and the Company effective February 25, 2002, as described in the Company's 2008 Proxy Statement, Mr. DeRodes will be entitled to receive the following payments, subject to his continued employment through January 2, 2009 (the "Termination Date"): (i) accelerated vesting on the Termination Date of 124,265 restricted shares of the Company's common stock that were originally scheduled to vest after January 2, 2009, (ii) 91.67% of any bonus earned under the Company's Fiscal 2008 MIP, based on achievement of applicable performance goals, and (iii) waiver of age 60 eligibility requirement to allow Mr. DeRodes to purchase coverage under the Company's retiree healthcare plan, contingent upon the insurer's agreement to provide said coverage.  These payments are contingent on Mr. DeRodes' execution of a second release of claims against the Company following the Termination Date and are subject to forfeiture for breach of the Separation Agreement.  A copy of the Separation Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
1.
                                     
Purpose
.  The purpose of The Home Depot Management Incentive Plan is to advance the interests of The Home Depot, Inc. and its stockholders by motivating key associates of the Company to take actions that will promote the Company's long-term success and growth.  The Plan is designed to provide incentive compensation to key associates by rewarding the achievement of corporate goals and specifically measured individual goals that are consistent with and support overall corporate goals.
 
2.
                                     
Definitions
 
(a)
                               
"" means an award entitling a Participant to receive incentive compensation subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Award
 
(b)
                              
"" means the Company's Board of Directors.
Board
 
(c)
                               
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(d)
                              
"" means the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Committee
 
(e)
                               
"" means shares of the Common Stock, $.05 par value per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
 
(f)
                                   
"" means The Home Depot, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
(g)
                              
"" means, with respect to a Participant, the Participant's becoming eligible for permanent and total disability benefits under the Company's or a Subsidiary's long-term disability plan.
Disability
 
(h)
                              
"" means the fair market value of a share of Common Stock as determined by the Committee from time to time.  Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, the fair market value shall be the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the relevant date or, if no sale occurred on such date, the closing price on the nearest preceding date on which sales occurred.
Fair Market Value
 
(i)
                                  
"" means a Participant who an officer of the Company.
Officer
 
 
(j)
                                  
"" means a key employee of the Company or a Subsidiary who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
Participant
 
(k)
                               
"" means the performance objectives established pursuant to this Plan for Participants who have received Awards.  Performance Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or the Subsidiary, division, department or function within the Company or Subsidiary in which the Participant is employed.  Any Performance Objectives applicable to a Qualified Performance-Based Award shall be limited to specified levels of the Company's or Subsidiary's following metrics:  (1) : (a) return on equity; (b) return on capital; (c) return on assets; (d) return on investment; and (2) : (a) earnings per share; (b) total earnings; (c) earnings growth; (d) earnings before or after interest and taxes; (e) earnings before taxes; (f) earnings before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (g) operating profit; (h) net income; and (3) :  (a) total sales; (b) sales growth; (c) comparable store sales; (d) sales per square foot; (e) average ticket sales; (f) sales per operating store; and (4) : (a) increase in the fair market value of the Common Stock; (b) total return to shareholders; and (5)  (a) cash flow; (b) operating cash flow; (c) free cash flow; (d) cash flow return on investment; and (6) : (a) inventory shrinkage goals; (b) stocking and other labor hours goals; (c) store payroll goals; (e) markdown goals; (f) workers' compensation goals; and (7) : (a) inventory; (b) inventory turns; (c) receivables turnover; and (8)  (a) gross margin; (b) gross margin return on investment; (c) market share or market penetration with respect to specific designated products or product groups and/or specific geographic areas; (d) timely and successful completion of key Company projects (including, for example, timely completion within budget); (e) economic value added (EVA); (f) internal rate of return; (g) net present value targets; (h) expense or cost level targets; (i) Employer of Choice survey results; (j) customer satisfaction based on specified objective goals or a Company-sponsored customer survey; (k) diversity goals; (l) attrition improvements; (m) productivity improvements; (n) operating cost management targets; (o) safety record goals. Except in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award, if the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the Performance Objectives unsuitable, the Committee may modify such Performance Objectives or the related minimum acceptable level of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable.
Performance Objectives
Financial Return Metrics
Earnings Metrics
Sales Metrics
Stock Price Metrics
:
Cash Flow Metrics
Store Metrics
Balance Sheet Metrics
:
Other Strategic Metrics
 
(l)
                                  
"" means a target level of performance, based on one or more Performance Objectives, established for a Performance Year in accordance with Section 4.
Performance Target
 
(m)
                            
"" means a period coinciding with the Company's fiscal year for accounting purposes, which shall be used for purposes of determining whether Awards are earned by Participants.
Performance Year
 
(n)
                              
"" means The Home Depot Management Incentive Plan, as stated herein, and as amended from time to time.
Plan
 
(o)
                              
"" means an Award or portion of an Award to an Officer that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "qualified performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m).  The Committee shall designate any Qualified Performance-Based Award as such at the time of grant.
Qualified Performance-Based Award
 
(p)
                              
"" means termination of employment with the Company or a Subsidiary after completing at least 5 years of continuous employment and attaining age 60.
Retirement
 
(q)
                              
"" means a corporation or other entity (i) more than fifty percent (50%) of whose outstanding shares or securities (representing the right to vote for the election of directors or other managing authority) are, or (ii) which does not have outstanding shares or securities (as may be the case in a partnership, joint venture or unincorporated association), but more than fifty percent (50%) of whose ownership interest (representing the right generally to make decisions for such other entity) is, now or hereafter owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Company.
Subsidiary
 
2.
                                     
Participation
.  For each Performance Year, the Committee shall designate those key employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries who shall receive Awards under the Plan.  Selection for participation for one Performance Year shall not confer on a Participant the right to participate in the Plan for any other Performance Year.
 
3.
                                     
Awards
.  For each Performance Year, each Participant shall receive an Award entitling the Participant to receive cash incentive compensation upon the attainment of one or more Performance Targets.  The Committee may establish different terms for Awards for different Participants or groups of Participants.  The amount of compensation payable under an Award may be stated as a dollar amount or as a percentage of the Participant's base compensation.  The Committee may provide for
 
a threshold level of performance below which no amount of compensation will be paid and a maximum level of performance above which no additional amount of compensation will be paid, and it may provide for the payment of differing amounts of compensation for different levels of performance.
 
4.
                                     
Establishment of Performance Targets
.  Within the first ninety (90) days of each Performance Year, the Committee shall establish one or more Performance Targets for that Performance Year.  Each Performance Target shall be specified as a percentage increase in or attainment of a specific level of a Performance Objective for the Performance Year.
 
5.
                                     
Payment of Awards
.  Within ninety (90) days following the end of each Performance Year, the Committee shall determine whether the Performance Targets for such Performance Year have been satisfied and shall certify its determination in approved minutes of the Committee meeting held for such purpose.  If the Committee certifies that one or more Performance Targets for a Performance Year have been achieved, all compensation payable in respect of Awards subject to such Performance Target shall be paid to Participants as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter; provided, however, that the Committee may permit the deferral of such compensation under a deferred compensation plan of the Company or a Subsidiary.  If a Performance Target for a Performance Year is not achieved, the Committee in its sole discretion may determine that all or a portion of any Award shall be deemed to be earned based on such criteria as the Committee deems appropriate, including without limitation individual performance or the performance of the Subsidiary or business division employing the Participant; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have such discretion with respect to any Qualified Performance-Based Award.  Any Award that is not considered earned in accordance with this Section shall be forfeited.
 
6.
                                     
Partial Years of Participation
. The Committee may establish rules and procedures for partial years of participation consistent with the following:
 
(a)
         
Employment Termination. 
If a Participant terminates employment with the Company before payment of Awards are made for a Performance Year for reasons other than death, Disability or Retirement, any Award granted to the Participant in respect of that Performance Year shall be forfeited and cancelled.
 
(b)
        
New Hires. 
In the case of an associate who is hired by the Company or a Subsidiary after the beginning of a Performance Year, the Committee may in its discretion designate such associate as a Participant in the Plan for that Performance Year, provided that the Committee may specify that such a Participant's Award shall be determined only with respect to the portion of the
 
Performance Year during which the Participant is employed by the Company or Subsidiary in the eligible position.
 
(c)
         
Death, Disability or Retirement. 
A Participant whose employment terminates during a Performance Year because of death or Disability, or because of Retirement (contingent on attainment of the applicable Performance Targets for such Performance Year), may, at the discretion of the Committee and under such rules as the Committee may from time to time prescribe, be eligible for consideration for a pro-rata Award based on the period of active employment during the Performance Year.
 
(d)
        
Promotions and Transfers. 
A Participant who is transferred to a non-exempt, hourly or other ineligible position during the Performance Year shall forfeit any Award granted to the Participant in respect of that Performance Year. An employee who is promoted to an eligible position, or a Participant who is transferred from one eligible position to another, during a Performance Year, may, at the discretion of the Committee and under such rules as the Committee may from time to time prescribe, be eligible for consideration for a pro-rata Award based on the period in the eligible position during the Performance Year.
 
(e)
         
Leave of Absence.
A Participant who is on a leave of absence other than a personal leave for more than ninety (90) consecutive days during the Performance Year, or who is on a personal leave of absence for more than thirty (30) consecutive days, shall forfeit any portion of an Award attributable to said period of leave pursuant to such rules as the Committee may establish.
 
7.
                                     
Maximum Amount of Qualified Performance-Based Awards
.  The maximum dollar amount of compensation that may be paid to any Participant in respect of Qualified Performance-Based Awards for a single Performance Year shall be three tenths of one percent (.3%) of the Company's net income for the Performance Year.
 
8.
                                     
Adjustments
.  To the extent that a Performance Target is based on an increase in the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, any merger, consolidation, spin-off, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets (other than a normal cash dividend), issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities or any other corporate transaction having an effect similar to any of the foregoing, then the Committee may make or provide for such adjustments in such Performance Target as the Committee in its sole discretion may in good faith determine to be equitably required in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants.
 
9.
                                     
Tax Withholding
.  The Company shall be entitled to withhold from any payment made under the Plan the full amount of any required federal, state or local taxes.
 
10.
                              
Nontransferability of Benefits
.  A Participant may not assign or transfer any interest in an Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the death of a Participant, the Participant's rights and benefits under the Plan shall pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
11.
                              
Administration and Interpretation
.  Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have complete authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe rules and requirements relating to it, and to make all determinations necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, the amending or altering of the Plan as may be required to comply with or conform to any federal, state or local laws or regulations.
 
12.
                              
Amendment and Termination of Plan
.  The Committee may at any time terminate the Plan and may at any time and from time to time amend or modify the Plan in any respect; provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective without approval of the stockholders of the Company if the amendment would increase the maximum amount of compensation payable to a Participant in any Performance Year pursuant to Qualified Performance-Based Awards as specified in Section 7.  Neither the termination of the Plan nor any amendment to the Plan shall reduce benefits accruing under Awards granted prior the date of such termination or amendment.
 
13.
                              
Governing Law
.  The Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.  As a condition to eligibility to receive an Award under the Plan, each Participant irrevocably consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Georgia and of any federal court located in the Northern District of Georgia in connection with any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Plan, any document or instrument delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Plan, or any alleged breach of this Plan or any such document or instrument.
 
14.
                              
Effective Dates and Stockholder Approval
.  This Plan shall be effective for periods beginning on and after February 4, 2008, provided that no Qualified Performance-Based Award shall be effective if the Plan is not approved by a vote of the stockholders of the Company at an annual meeting or special meeting.
 
15.
                              
Offsets
.  As a condition to eligibility for an Award, each Participant consents to the deduction from the Award of any amounts owed by the Participant to the Company to the extent permitted by applicable law.
 
16.
                              
No Rights to Continued Employment
.  Participation in the Plan does not create or constitute an express or implied employment contract between the Company and the Participant nor limit the right of the Company to discharge or otherwise deal with a Participant without regard to the existence of the Plan.
 
17.
                              
Unfunded Plan
.  The Plan shall at all times be an unfunded payroll practice and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating assets of the Company for payment of any Award.  No Participant or any other person shall have any interest in any particular assets of the Company by reason of the right to receive an Award under the Plan and any such Participant or any other person shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.
 
18.
                              
Limitations Period For Claims
.  Any person who believes he or she is being denied any benefit or right under the Plan may file a written claim with the Committee.  Any claim must be delivered to the Committee within forty-five (45) days of the later of the end of the Award Period to which the claim relates or the specific event giving rise to the claim. Untimely claims will not be processed and shall be deemed denied.  The Committee, or its designated agent, will notify the Participant of its decision in writing as soon as administratively practicable.  Claims not responded to by the Committee in writing within ninety (90) days of the date the written claim is delivered to the Committee shall be deemed denied. The Committee's decision is final and conclusive and binding on all persons.  No lawsuit relating to the Plan may be filed before a written claim is filed with the Committee and is denied or deemed denied and any lawsuit must be filed within one year of such denial of deemed denial or be forever barred.

Exhibit 10.2
This is an Agreement between The Home Depot, Inc. (the "") and Robert P. DeRodes (the "").
Company
Executive
 
WHEREAS,
Company and Executive intend the terms and conditions of this Agreement to govern all issues related to Executive's employment and termination from Company and its subsidiaries and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, is intended to supersede and replace the provisions set forth in any of his employment letters, including but not limited to the letter agreement dated February 5, 2002; and
 
WHEREAS,
Executive acknowledges that he has been given a reasonable period of time, up to and including twenty-one (21) days, to consider the terms of this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS,
Company advises Executive to consult with a lawyer before signing this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS,
Executive acknowledges that the consideration provided him under this Agreement is sufficient to support the releases provided by him under this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS,
Executive represents that he has not filed any charges, claims or lawsuits against Company involving any aspect of his employment which have not been terminated as of the date of this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS,
Executive understands that Company regards the representations by him as material and that Company is relying on these representations in entering into this Agreement,
 
NOW, THEREFORE
, Company and Executive agree as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Employment Status and Termination Date.
  Executive will continue his employment with Company through January 2, 2009.  Executive will maintain his current salary and benefits during this time. Executive warrants that in performing his duties he shall use his best efforts in a diligent manner and shall dedicate such time as necessary to perform them on a timely basis. Executive's last day of employment ("") shall be January 2, 2009, or Company's earlier termination of Executive's employment, at Company's sole discretion. If Company determines that the Termination Date will precede January 2, 2009, Executive shall receive payment at his current salary rate for the period of time between the Termination Date and January 2, 2009, subject to applicable tax withholding. Payments are due on the first day of each month following the Termination Date. Payment of all such monthly payments shall be completed no later than January 31, 2009. Each such monthly payment shall constitute a separate payment for purpose of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the ""). Executive shall not accrue any vacation days or credit subsequent to the Termination Date.
Termination Date
Code
 
2.
                                      
Separation Payments.
  Executive shall receive twelve (12) monthly separation payments of $62,666.67 each, payable on the first business day of each month following January 2, 2009. All payments are subject to applicable tax withholding. Each monthly payment shall constitute a separate payment for purposes of Code Section 409A. It is intended that the exemption provided by Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A)(2) shall apply to that portion of the monthly payments not in excess of two times the maximum amount that may be taken into account under a qualified plan pursuant to Code Section 401(a)(17).
 
 
 
3.
                                      
Bonuses.
 
(a)           . Executivewill participate in the Management Incentive Plan ("") for Fiscal 2008, and will receive a prorated payment of 91.67% of his MIP payout if pre-established performance goals are achieved, as determined by Company in its sole discretion. Any bonus payment earned will be payable at the same time other officers receive their bonuses for such year, but in no event later than April 15, 2009, subject to applicable tax withholding.
Fiscal 2008 MIP
MIP
 
(b)           . 
Fiscal 2009 MIP
Executivewill not be eligible to participate in the MIP for Fiscal Year 2009 or beyond. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Executive will receive a guaranteed single sum payment of $752,000, less applicable tax withholding, representing his target MIP bonus for Fiscal 2009, payable to Executive at the same time other officers receive their Fiscal 2009 bonuses for such year but in no event later than April 30, 2010.  This Section 3(b) is carried forward from Executive's February 5, 2002 employment letter with the Company and it is intended to be an unmodified grandfathered contract benefit under Rev. Rul. 2008-13.
 
(c)           .  Executivenot be eligible to participate in any Long Term Incentive Program ("") after the date of this Agreement and forfeits all rights to payment under any outstanding
LTIP
will
LTIP
LTIP cycle.
 
(d)           . 
Other Bonuses
Executive will not be
eligible for bonus payments of any kind, except as provided in this Section 3.
 
4.
                                      
Benefits.
  Executive's benefits (including the Supplemental Executive Choice Program and executive life insurance and leased car programs) shall end on the Termination Date, pursuant to the terms of such plans and applicable law.  Executive shall receive a monthly payment (subject to applicable tax withholding), due on the first day of each month following the Termination Date, in an amount necessary to continue his healthcare coverage through COBRA, less the employee share of the premium for said coverage, through the earlier of: (a) twelve (12) months from the Termination Date, or (b) Executive's acceptance of other employment with comparable healthcare eligibility. Company will authorize Executive's eligibility for retiree healthcare coverage through UnitedHealthcare (or current insurance provider at such time) after expiration of his COBRA coverage and before he attains age sixty (60), provided, however, that Executive's coverage under such plan is contingent upon the consent and agreement of UnitedHealthcare (or current insurance provider at such time) to provide said coverage to Executive. Executive shall not be entitled to any other benefits except as expressly provided for in this Agreement.
 
5.
                                      
Stock Options/Restricted Stock.
 
(a)
         
All of Executive's options to purchase Company's common stock ("") that vest before the Termination Date will be cancelled and forfeited unless exercised by April 2, 2010. Executive's 40,461 outstanding, unvested Options that are originally scheduled to vest after January 2, 2009 but before January 3, 2010 (comprised of 12,500 Options granted on March 17, 2004 that were originally scheduled to vest on March 17, 2009; 15,000 Options granted on March 23, 2005 that were originally scheduled on March 23, 2009; and 12,961 Options that were granted on March 21, 2007 that were originally scheduled to vest on March 21, 2009) are hereby amended to vest on the Termination Date.  These 40,461 Options may not be exercised until the following dates: 20,230 Options may be exercised as of the Termination Date; 5,231 Options may be exercised as of March 21, 2009; and 15,000 Options may be exercised as of March 23, 2009. Any portion of the 40,461 Options not exercised by April 2, 2010 will be cancelled and forfeited.  All 40,461 Options are subject to forfeiture for
Options
 
 
any earlier breach as provided in Paragraph 10. All other unvested Options shall be forfeited on the Termination Date.
 
(b)
        
The restrictions on Executive's 176,896 outstanding shares of restricted shares of Company's common stock (""), originally scheduled to lapse after January 2, 2009 (comprised of 10,000 Restricted Shares granted on August 21, 2003 and originally scheduled to vest on August 21, 2009; 22,000 Restricted Shares granted on March 17, 2004 and originally scheduled to vest on March 17, 2009; 22,000 Restricted Shares granted on March 23, 2005 and originally scheduled to vest on March 23, 2010; 49,000 Restricted Shares granted on March 20, 2006 and originally scheduled to vest on March 20, 2011; 12,500 Restricted Shares granted on March 20, 2006 and originally scheduled to vest on March 20, 2009; 8,131 Restricted Shares granted on March 20, 2006 and originally scheduled to vest on March 20, 2009; 28,265 Restricted Shares granted on March 21, 2007 and originally scheduled to vest on March 21, 2012; and 25,000 Restricted Shares granted on March 20, 2006 and originally scheduled to vest on September 5, 2010), are hereby amended to lapse instead on the Termination Date. All other shares of Executive's Restricted Shares shall be forfeited on the Termination Date.  The 176,896 Restricted Shares may not be transferred until the following dates: 88,448 Restricted Shares may be transferred as of the Termination Date; and the remaining 88,448 Restricted Shares may be transferred as of January 3, 2011. Executive and Company agree that Company shall not be required to issue any share to Executive before the date the share may be transferred, as set forth in this Paragraph 5(b), except to accommodate the sales of shares for tax purposes as set forth in Paragraph 5(c), below. All 176,896 Restricted Shares are subject to forfeiture for any earlier breach as provided in Paragraph 10.  If Company determines that the Termination Date will precede January 2, 2009, the restrictions on Executive's 27,500 outstanding shares of restricted shares of Company's common stock (""), comprised of 12,500 Restricted Shares granted on August 18, 2005 and originally scheduled to vest on August 18, 2008; and 15,000 Restricted Shares granted on August 26, 2002 and originally scheduled to vest on August 26, 2008, are hereby amended to lapse instead on the Termination Date.  The 27,500 Restricted Shares may not be transferred until the following dates: 12,500 Restricted Shares may be transferred as of August 18, 2008; and 15,000 Restricted Shares may be transferred as of August 26, 2008.
Restricted Shares
Restricted Shares
 
(c)
         
Executive and Company acknowledge that the shares referenced in Paragraph 5(b) shall constitute taxable income to Executive at the time of vesting on the Termination Date; and that the vested stock options referenced in Paragraph 5(a) shall be taxable to Executive when such options are exercised. Accordingly, Executive acknowledges his obligations to pay all related applicable federal, state and local income and employment taxes, and that Company is required to withhold applicable taxes with respect to these shares and vested options. Accordingly, Executive hereby authorizes Company to withhold and surrender to Company a sufficient number of shares necessary to satisfy said withholding obligations.
 
(d)
        
Executive shall not be eligible to receive any other equity-based awards.
 
(e)
         
Executive is solely responsible for ensuring that his equity awards are properly credited, exercised and handled as provided by the terms of the awards as modified by this Agreement.  Executive acknowledges that he may not rely on the Merrill Lynch website in determining the exercise or expiration dates of his equity awards. Executive should direct any inquiries to the Atlanta Branch of Merrill Lynch at 404-264-7274; however, Company is not responsible for any incorrect information Executive might receive from Merrill Lynch.
 
 
6.
                                      
Release of Claims.
Executive and his heirs, assigns, and agents release, waive and discharge Company, its past and present parents, subsidiaries, affiliates and related entities, and their respective past and present predecessors, successors, assigns, representatives, directors, officers, employees, and agents from each and every claim, action or right of any sort, known or unknown, arising on or before the Effective Date.
 
(a)
         
The foregoing release includes, but is not limited to, any claim of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, age, or citizenship status; any other claim based on any local, state, or federal prohibition, including but not limited to claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, or ; any claim arising out of or related to any alleged express or implied employment contract, any other alleged contract affecting terms and conditions of employment, or an alleged covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
the Americans With Disabilities Act
or any claim for severance pay, bonus, salary, sick leave, stocks, attorneys' fees, holiday pay, vacation pay, life insurance, health or medical insurance or any other employee or fringe benefit, workers' compensation or disability.
 
(b)
        
Executive represents that he understands the foregoing release, that rights and claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, are among the rights and claims against Company he is releasing, and that he understands that he is not presently releasing any future rights or claims that might arise after the Effective Date.
 
(c)
         
Executive further agrees never to sue Company or its past and present directors, officers, employees, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and agents or cause Company or its past and present directors, officers, employees, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and agents to be sued regarding any matter within the scope of the above release. If Executive violates this Paragraph 6, Company may recover all damages as allowed by law, including all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred in defending against the suit.
 
(d)
        
Nothing herein is intended to or shall in any manner release, diminish or impair Executive's rights under this Agreement, and rights, if any, that Executive may have to: (i) indemnification or advancement of expenses under Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or Delaware law, and (ii) coverage under directors' and officers' liability insurance maintained by Company or its affiliates.
 
7.
                                      
Additional Release of Claims.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Executive shall not be entitled to any payment or benefit pursuant to Paragraphs 3, 4 or 5 unless Executive has delivered to Company a second release of claims, in the form shown on , that is signed by Executive at least twenty-one (21) days after the Termination Date and is not revoked by Executive, as permitted by the express terms in .
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
 
8.
                                      
Confidential Information and Trade Secrets.
 
(a)
         
Executive acknowledges that through his employment with Company he has acquired and had access to Confidential Information of Company,
its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entitiesits parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entitiesExecutive Vice President, Human Resources
.  Executive further acknowledges that he has not published, disclosed or used any of this Confidential Information except in accordance with his duties for Company.  Executive agrees that, for a period of three years after the Effective Date, he will hold in confidence all Confidential Information of Company,
and will not disclose, publish or make use of such Confidential Information, unless compelled by law and then only after written notice to Company's
. 
 
 
Executive further agrees to return all documents, disks, or any other item or source containing Confidential Information, or any other property of Company,
its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entitiesIf Executive has any question regarding what data or information would be considered by Company to be Confidential Information, Executive agrees to contact the Executive Vice President, Human Resources for written clarification.  its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities
, to Company on or before the Effective Date. 
"" shall include any data or information, other than trade secrets, that is valuable to Company,
Confidential Information
and not generally known to competitors or outsiders, regardless of whether the confidential information is in printed, written, or electronic form, retained in Executive's memory, or has been compiled or created by Executive.  This includes, but is not limited to: information technology, computer systems, marketing, advertising, technical, financial, personnel, staffing, payroll, merchandising, strategic planning, product, vendor, supplier, customer or store planning data, construction, trade secrets, or other information similar to the foregoing.
 
(b)
        
Executive also acknowledges that through his employment with Company he has acquired and had access to Company's Trade Secrets,
its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entitiesits parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entitiesits parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities
.  Executive further acknowledges that Company,
have made reasonable efforts under the circumstances to maintain the secrecy of their Trade Secrets.  Executive agrees to hold in confidence all Trade Secrets of Company,
that came into his knowledge during employment by Company and shall not disclose, publish, or make use of at any time such Trade Secrets for so long as the information remains a Trade Secret.  "" means information, without regard to form, including, but not limited to, any technical or non-technical data, formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, drawing, process, financial data, financial plans, technology plans or strategy, company software or programs, strategic plans, product plans, or list of actual or potential customers or suppliers which is not commonly known by or available to the public and which information: (i) derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can derive economic value from its disclosure or use and (ii) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.
Trade Secret
 
(c)
         
Executive further acknowledges that his breach of any of the covenants in this Paragraph 8 would result in immediate and irreparable harm to Companyits parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities that cannot be adequately or reasonably compensated at law.  Accordingly, Executive agrees that Company shall be entitled, if any such breach shall occur or be threatened or attempted, if it so elects, to seek from a court a temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunction, without being required to post a bond, enjoining and restraining such breach or threatened or attempted breach by Executive.
,
 
9.
                                      
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation.
 
(a)
         
Executive acknowledges that during his employment he provided services to Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and related entities in all locations that these entities conduct business.  These services necessarily required Company to disclose the Confidential Information and Trade Secrets of these entities to Executive.  Executive further acknowledges that his position allowed him to develop a personal relationship with certain customers, suppliers and vendors of Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and related entities, and to acquire knowledge of the affairs and requirements of these customers, suppliers and vendors. The customers, suppliers and vendors with whom Executive has had business dealings with on behalf of these entities are located throughout the world.   As a result, Executive agrees that he will not, before January 3, 2011, enter into or maintain an
 
 
employment, contractual, or other relationship, either directly or indirectly, to provide information technology or executive services in the same or similar manner as he did for Company to any company or entity engaged in any way in a business that competes directly or indirectly with Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities, in the United States, Mexico, China, Canada, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Guam, other country or territory where Company does business before January 3, 2011, without the prior written consent of Company's Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Businesses that compete with Company specifically include, but are not limited to, the following entities and each of their subsidiaries, affiliates, assigns, or successors in interest: Lowe's Companies, Inc. (including, but not limited to, Eagle Hardware and Garden); Sears Holding Corp. (including, but not limited to, Orchard Supply and Hardware Company); Wal-Mart; RONA Inc.; B&Q; Ace Hardware; True Value Company; Reno Depot; OBI; Kent; Home Hardware; Orient Home; Home First; Leroy Merlin; La Maison; Home Mart; No. 9; and Menard, Inc.
 
(b)   For the period through January 3, 2011, to the extent Executive has an employment, contractual, directorship, or affiliate (as defined by SEC Rules) relationship with another company, Executive shall give advance written notice to Company in the event Executive becomes aware that such other company intends to enter into bid or other business negotiations with Company; provided that this advance-notice obligation shall not apply to the extent it would be inconsistent with Executive's fiduciary duties to such other company or its shareholders, in which case Executive shall give written notice to Company within one (1) business day of submission of any such bid or entering into business negotiations with Company. In addition, for the period through January 3, 2011, Executive shall not, whether through an employment, contractual, directorship, affiliate, or other relationship: (i) participate in communications, negotiations or bids between any other company and Company and will refrain from any oversight or advisory services with respect thereto;  or (ii) interfere with, solicit on behalf of such other company or attempt to entice away from Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary of Company) (x) any project, financing or customer that, to the knowledge of Executive or upon notice to Executive from Company, Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary of Company) has under contract (including unfulfilled purchase orders), or any letter of supply or other supplier contract or arrangement that, to the knowledge of Executive or upon notice to
Executive
from Company, has been entered into by Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary of Company), and all extensions, renewals and re-solicitations of such contracts or arrangements, (y) any contract, agreement or arrangement that, to the knowledge of Executive or upon notice to Executive from Company, Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary of Company) is actively negotiating with any other party, or (z) any prospective business opportunity that, to the knowledge of Executive or upon notice to Executive from Company, Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary of Company) has identified.
 
(c)
         
In the event Executive wishes to enter into any relationship or employment before January 3, 2011 which would violate  the above non-compete provision, Executive agrees to request written permission from Company's Executive Vice President, Human Resources before entering any such relationship or employment. Company may approve or not approve of the relationship or employment at its absolute discretion.
 
(d)
        
Executive agrees that before January 3, 2012, he will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of himself or any other entity or person, solicit or encourage any person who is an employee of Companyits parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities to terminate his or her relationship with Companyits parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities, or to refer any such employee to anyone, without prior written approval from Company's Executive Vice President, Human Resources.
,
,
 
 
(e)
         
Executive acknowledges that the covenants in this Paragraph 9:  (i) are necessary for the protection of the legitimate business interests of Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and related entities; (ii) are reasonable in terms of time, geographic scope, and activities restricted; (iii) are designed to prevent unfair competition and not to stifle the inherent skill and experience of Executive; (iv) will not interfere with Executive's ability to earn a livelihood; and (v) do not confer a benefit upon Company disproportionate to the detriment to Executive.  Executive acknowledges that if he were to breach any of the covenants in this Paragraph 9, such breach would result in immediate and irreparable harm to Company that cannot be adequately or reasonably compensated at law.  Accordingly, Executive agrees that Company shall be entitled, if any such breach shall occur or be threatened or attempted, if it so elects, to a seek from a court a temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunction, without being required to post a bond, enjoining and restraining such breach or threatened or attempted breach by Executive.
 
10.
                                
Breach by Executive.
  Company's obligations to Executive under this Agreement are contingent on Executive's performance of his obligations under this Agreement. Any breach by Executive of this Agreement will result in the immediate cancellation of all Executive's outstanding stock options and restricted stock, as well as entitle Company to all its other remedies allowed in law or equity, including but not limited to the return of any payments that it made to Executive under this Agreement and the return to Company of any proceeds Executive received from stock options exercised or restricted stock sold after April 1, 2008, to the extent permitted under federal, state and local law.
 
11.
                                
Board Service.  Company will waive application of its internal policy, and, subject to Executive's compliance with the requirements of Paragraph 9, it shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement, if Executive serves on more than one external board of directors for other companies ("Other Company") before the Termination Date, provided that such Other Company board service does not unreasonably interfere with Executive's duties and obligations to Company pursuant to this Agreement, as determined by Company in its sole discretion, and Executive complies with the following requirements:
 
(a)
         
At any time before the Termination Date and for a period of two (2) years following the Termination Date, Executive shall not participate in any board meetings, discussions, or other communications regarding Company.
 
(b)
        
Executive shall comply with all requirements as set forth in Paragraph 9 above.  No language in this Paragraph 11 shall be read to limit the rights of the Company or the obligations of the Executive to the Company as set forth in Paragraph 9 above.
 
12.
                                
Termination for "Cause" or Voluntary Resignation.
  Executive will not receive any of the payments or benefits specified in this Agreement if he is terminated for "cause" or voluntarily resigns from employment before January 2, 2009.  "" for termination shall mean: (a) harassment of or discrimination against associates, customers, or vendors; (b) unethical conduct (including, but not limited to, accepting bribes, disclosure of Confidential Information, etc.); (c) falsification of Company records or documents; (d) violation of Company's Conflict of Interest policy; (e) theft; (f) violation of Company's Mutual Attraction policy; (g) violation of Company's Substance Abuse policy; or (h) violation of Company's Securities Law Policy.  Executive will not be considered to have voluntarily resigned from employment if, before January 2, 2009, Executive resigns because: (i) he is assigned a role outside the Atlanta metropolitan area, or (ii) his base salary is decreased; or (iii) he is assigned to a position other than Executive Vice President, or to a position that does not report to either the Chief Executive Officer or to a Chief Information Officer other than Executive (""), provided that Executive
Cause
Resignation Events
 
 
provides written notice to Company within 90 days of being notified of a Resignation Event of his intent to resign, whereupon Company shall have 30 days thereafter remedy the condition.
 
13.
                                
Executive Availability.
  Executive agrees to make himself reasonably available to Company to respond to requests by Company for information pertaining to or relating to Company and its affiliates, subsidiaries, agents, officers, directors or employees which may be within the knowledge of Executive. Executive agrees to cooperate fully with Company in connection with any and all existing or future litigation, charges, or investigations brought by or against Company or any of its past or present affiliates, agents, officers, directors or employees, whether administrative, civil or criminal in nature, in which and to the extent Company deems Executive's cooperation necessary.  In conjunction with Executive's commitments under this Paragraph 13, Company will reimburse Executive for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred as a result of such cooperation.  The amount of expenses reimbursable by Company under this Section 13 in any one calendar year shall not affect the amount reimbursable in any other calendar year, and the reimbursement of an eligible expense shall be made within sixty (60) days after Executive's written request for reimbursement accompanied with such evidence of expenses incurred as Company may reasonably require, but in any event no later than December 31 of the year after the year in which the expense was incurred.  This Section 13 shall expire on Executive's death and shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
 
14.
                                
Non-Disparagement.
Except as may be required by law or subpoena, Executive agrees that he will notdirectly or indirectly publish, communicate, make or cause to be made any statements or opinions that disparage, criticize or that would be derogatory to or otherwise harm the business or reputation of Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, or related entities, and their respective past and present predecessors, successors, assigns, representatives, directors, officers, employees, and agents to anyone, including but not limited to the media, internet blogs, public interest groups and publishing companies. Disparagement shall not include disparaging, criticizing or derogatory statements made in Executive's name as a result of bona fide identify theft, provided that Executive cooperates with Company and takes steps reasonably requested by Company to immediately correct and address such statements and prevent their future occurrence.
 
15.
                                
Insider Trading.
  Executive acknowledges that for a period of six (6) months after the Termination Date, he will remain subject to the restrictions of Company's Securities Laws Policy applicable to Directors, Officers, and Designated Associates, which permits trading only during designated window periods.  After expiration of said six-month period, the Securities Law Policy will no longer apply to Executive. However, Executive acknowledges that through his employment with Company he may have learned material, non-public information regarding Company.  The federal securities laws prohibit trading by persons while aware of material, non-public information.  Executive should seek advice of his legal counsel before conducting any transactions in Company's stock if Executive thinks he may possess such information.
 
16.
                                
Future Employment.
Executive hereby understands and agrees that he will not be re-employed by Company in the future and that Executive will never knowingly apply to Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, parents or divisions for any job or position in the future.
 
17.
                                
Severability of Provisions.
In the event that any provision in this Agreement is determined to be legally invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, and cannot be modified to be enforceable, the affected provision shall be stricken from the Agreement, and the remaining terms of the Agreement and its enforceability shall remain unaffected.
 
18.
                                
Right to Revoke this Agreement.
Executive may revoke this Agreement in writing within seven (7) days of signing it by sending written notice of revocation to Company's Executive Vice President,
 
 
Human Resources.  The Agreement will not take effect until the Effective Date. If Executive revokes this Agreement, all of its provisions shall be void and unenforceable.
 
19.
                                
Effective Date.
The " shall be the day after the end of the revocation period described in Paragraph 18.
"
Effective Date
 
20.
                                
Non-Assignment
. 
Executive represents and warrants that as of the date of this Agreement he has not assigned or transferred, or purported to assign or transfer, to any person, firm, corporation, association or entity whatsoever any released claim.  Executive hereby agrees to indemnify and hold Company harmless against, without any limitation, any and all rights, claims, warranties, demands, debts, obligations, liabilities, costs, court costs, expenses, including attorneys' fees, causes of action or judgments based on or arising out of any such assignment or transfer.
 
21.
                                
Code Section 409A.
  Company makes no representation or warranty to Executive or other person regarding compliance with, or exemption from, Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to any payment or benefit provided by this Agreement.  Executive agrees that he shall bear sole and exclusive responsibility for any and all federal, state, local or other tax consequences (including, without limitation, any and all tax liability under Section 409A) of this Agreement, and fully indemnifies and holds the Company harmless therefor.  Executive should consult with his own tax advisor in connection with this Agreement and its tax consequences.
 
22.
                                
Entire Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties. The parties have not relied on any oral statements that are not included in this Agreement. Any modifications to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by Company's Executive Vice President, Human Resources.
 
23.
                                
Governing Law
.  This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted and applied in accordance with the law of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the choice of law provisions thereof.  Executive and Company hereby irrevocably submit any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement to the exclusive concurrent jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in Delaware.  Executive and Company also both irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection either may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such dispute brought in such court or any defense of inconvenient forum for the maintenance of such dispute, and both parties agree to accept service of legal process from the courts of Delaware.
 
24.
                                
Notices
.  All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and may be given by any of the following methods:  hand delivery, overnight courier, facsimile, email, or certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested and postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
or to such other address as either of the parties shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  Notice and communications shall be effective when dispatched by any of the above methods, as reflected by the applicable post-mark or other indicator (fax delivery confirmation for facsimile and "delivered receipt" for email), as to the date and time of dispatch.
 
                Executive understands and acknowledges the significance and consequences of this Agreement, that the consideration provided herein is fair and adequate, and represents that the terms of this Agreement are fully understood and voluntarily accepted.
 
 
This Release of Claims is executed by Robert P. DeRodes (the "") in consideration for certain promises by The Home Depot, Inc. (the "") contained in the                                     , 2008 Agreement and Release between Executive and Company.
Executive
Company
 
WHEREAS,
Executive executed a Agreement & Release ("") on                                      releasing Company from each and every claim, action or right of any sort, known or unknown, that Executive may have against Company arising on or before the Effective Date of the Agreement; and,
Agreement
 
WHEREAS,
Company and Executive agree that Executive will execute this separate Release of Claims for each and every claim, action or right of any sort, known or unknown, that Executive may have against Company arising after the Effective Date of the Agreement but before the Termination Date as defined in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement; and,
 
WHEREAS
, the consideration for this Release of Claims is set forth in Paragraph 7 of the Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS,
Executive acknowledges that he has been given a reasonable period of time, up to and including twenty-one (21) days, to consider the terms of this Release of Claims; and
 
WHEREAS,
Company advises Executive to consult with a lawyer before signing this Release of Claims; and
 
WHEREAS,
this Release of Claims shall be signed by Executive at least twenty-one (21) days after the Termination Date; and
 
WHEREAS,
Executive acknowledges that the consideration provided for this Release of Claims is sufficient to support the release of claims; and
 
WHEREAS,
Executive represents that he has not filed any charges, claims or lawsuits against Company involving any aspect of his employment which have not been terminated as of the date of this Release of Claims.
 
NOW, THEREFORE
, Executive agrees as follows:
 
1.             Executive and his heirs, assigns, and agents release, waive and discharge Company and its past and present directors, officers, employees, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and agents from each and every claim, action or right of any sort, known or unknown, arising on or before the Termination Date.
Release of Claims.
 
 
 
(a)
         
The foregoing release includes, but is not limited to, any claim of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, age, or citizenship status; any other claim based on any local, state, or federal prohibition, including but not limited to claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended (""), or ; any claim arising out of or related to any alleged express or implied employment contract, any other alleged contract affecting terms and conditions of employment, or an alleged covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
ADEA
the Americans With Disabilities Act
or any claim for severance pay, bonus, salary, sick leave, stocks, attorneys' fees, holiday pay, vacation pay, life insurance, health or medical insurance or any other employee or fringe benefit, workers' compensation or disability.
 
(b)
        
Executive represents that he understands the foregoing release, that rights and claims under ADEA are among the rights and claims against Company that he is releasing, and that he understands that he is not presently releasing any future rights or claims that might arise after the Termination Date.
 
(c)
         
Executive further agrees never to sue Company or its past and present directors, officers, employees, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and agents or cause Company or its past and present directors, officers, employees, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and agents to be sued regarding any matter within the scope of the above release. If Executive violates this Paragraph 1, Company may recover all damages as allowed by law, including all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred in defending against the suit.
 
(e)
         
Nothing herein is intended to or shall in any manner release, diminish or impair Executive's rights under the Agreement, and rights, if any, that Executive may have to: (i) indemnification or advancement of expenses under Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or Delaware law, and (ii) coverage under directors' and officers' liability insurance maintained by Company or its affiliates.
 
2.             Executive may revoke this Release of Claims in writing within seven (7) days of signing it by sending written notice of revocation to Company's Executive Vice President, Human Resources.  This Release of Claims will not take effect until eighth day after it is delivered to Company, and only if the release is not revoked by Executive during the revocation period.
 
3.            
Executive represents and warrants that, as of the date of this Release of Claims, he has not assigned or transferred, or purported to assign or transfer, to any person, firm, corporation, association or entity whatsoever any released claim.  Executive hereby agrees to indemnify and hold Company harmless against, without any limitation, any and all rights, claims, warranties, demands, debts, obligations, liabilities, costs, court costs, expenses, including attorneys' fees, causes of action or judgments based on or arising out of any such assignment or transfer.
 
 
 


