FILE:HD/HD-8K-20091117071457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 17, 2009, The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 1, 2009.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 16, 2009
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported third quarter of fiscal 2009 net earnings of $689 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $756 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the same period in fiscal 2008.
ATLANTA, November 17, 2009 
Sales for the third quarter totaled $16.4 billion, an 8.0 percent decrease from the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Comparable store sales for the third quarter were negative 6.9 percent, and comp sales for U.S. stores were negative 7.1 percent.
"There is still a great deal of pressure in the housing and home improvement markets, though there are some positive signs of stabilization," said Frank Blake, chairman and CEO. "Our business continues to perform well in a difficult environment. We grew market share in the quarter, continued to transform our business and improved customer service. I want to thank our associates for their hard work and dedication."
Updated Fiscal 2009 Guidance
Based on its year-to-date performance, the Company continues to expect sales to be down approximately 9 percent for the year. The Company updated its fiscal 2009 EPS guidance and now expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of approximately $1.50, up 9.5 percent from fiscal 2008. On an adjusted basis, the Company now expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of approximately $1.55 for the year, a decline from fiscal 2008 of approximately 13 percent.
The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at homedepot.com in the Investor Relations section.
At the end of the third quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,242 retail stores, which included 1,975 The Home Depot stores in the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands and the territory of Guam), 179 stores in Canada, 77 stores in Mexico and 11 stores in China. The Company employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
To provide clarity, internally and externally, about the Company's operating performance for the recently completed fiscal quarter, the Company supplemented its reporting with non-GAAP financial measures to reflect the impact of the store
rationalization charge, business rationalization charges and related restructuring charges. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures better enable management and investors to understand and analyze the Company's performance by providing them with meaningful information relevant to events of unusual nature or frequency. However, this supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures can be found in the attached schedule.
Certain statements contained herein constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services, net sales growth, comparable store sales, store openings and closures, state of the economy, state of the residential construction, housing and home improvement markets, state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit, commodity price inflation and deflation, implementation of store initiatives, continuation of reinvestment plans, net earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, capital allocation and expenditures, liquidity, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, return on invested capital, management of the Company's purchasing or customer credit policies, the effect of accounting charges, the planned recapitalization of the Company, timing of the completion of such recapitalization, the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us and financial outlook. Such forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties  many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to us  as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended February 1, 2009, and in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 2, 2009.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update such statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 


