FILE:HD/HD-8K-20090818071737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 18, 2009, The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 2, 2009.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 17, 2009
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported second quarter of fiscal 2009 net earnings of $1.1 billion, or $0.66 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $1.2 billion, or $0.71 per diluted share, in the same period in fiscal 2008.
ATLANTA, August 18, 2009
Second quarter of 2009 results reflect a net impact to operating profit of $20 million related to the closing of the Company's EXPO businesses, previously announced on January 26, 2009. Excluding this impact, adjusted earnings per share were $0.67 for the quarter.
The Company's fiscal 2009 second quarter net earnings reflect a tax benefit of approximately $50 million arising from a favorable foreign tax settlement. The tax benefit positively impacted earnings per share by approximately 3 cents.
Sales for the second quarter totaled $19.1 billion, a 9.1 percent decrease from the second quarter of fiscal 2008. Comparable store sales for the second quarter were negative 8.5 percent, and comp sales for U.S. stores were negative 6.9 percent.
"Concerns about the housing market, rising unemployment and softness in the overall economy continue to pressure consumers," said Frank Blake, chairman & CEO. "Our business performed well in a down market, we captured market share and drove operating productivity. The combination made for a solid quarter relative to our plan.
"I want to thank our associates for their hard work in an incredibly tough environment. Their passion and focus on customer service are our strongest competitive advantage."
Updated Fiscal 2009 EPS Guidance
The Company confirmed that it believes that fiscal 2009 sales will be down approximately 9 percent from fiscal 2008. Based on its year-to-date performance, the Company lifted its fiscal 2009 EPS guidance and now expects earnings per share from continuing operations to be flat to up 7 percent from last year. On an adjusted basis, the Company now expects earnings per share from continuing operations to decline by 15 to 20 percent.
The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at homedepot.com in the Investor Relations section.
At the end of the second quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,240 retail stores, which included 1,974 The Home Depot stores in the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands and the territory of Guam), 178 stores in Canada, 77 stores in Mexico and 11 stores in China. The Company employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
To provide clarity, internally and externally, about the Company's operating performance for the recently completed fiscal quarter, the Company supplemented its reporting of net earnings and earnings per share with non-GAAP measurements to reflect the impact of the store rationalization charge, business rationalization charges, and related restructuring charges. The Company believes that these non-GAAP measurements better enable management and investors to understand and analyze the Company's performance by providing them with meaningful information relevant to events of unusual nature or frequency. However, this supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the GAAP measurements. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measurements to the corresponding GAAP measurements can be found in the attached schedule.
Certain statements contained herein constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services, net sales growth, comparable store sales, store openings and closures, state of the economy, state of residential construction, housing and home improvement markets, state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit, commodity price inflation and deflation, implementation of store initiatives, continuation of reinvestment plans, net earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, capital allocation and expenditures, liquidity, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, return on invested capital, management of the Company's purchasing or customer credit policies, the effect of accounting charges, the planned recapitalization of the Company, timing of the completion of such recapitalization, the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us and financial outlook. Such forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties  many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to us  as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended February 1, 2009, and in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our Quarterly Report or Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 3, 2009.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update such statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
:
For more information, contact
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:     Diluted Earnings Per Share may not foot due to rounding.
 


