FILE:HD/HD-8K-20090519074116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On May 19, 2009, The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended May 3, 2009.
          The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 18, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported first quarter of fiscal 2009 net earnings of $514 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $356 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, in the same period in fiscal 2008.
ATLANTA, May 19, 2009 
First quarter of 2009 results reflect a net impact to operating profit of $117 million related to the closing of the EXPO businesses. In the first quarter of 2008, the Company's reported results included charges of $543 million associated with the Company's store rationalization plan. On an adjusted basis, the Company reported first quarter of fiscal 2009 net earnings of $587 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, compared to adjusted net earnings of $697 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, in the same period of fiscal 2008.
Sales for the first quarter totaled $16.2 billion, a 9.7 percent decrease from the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Comparable store sales for the first quarter were negative 10.2 percent, and comp sales for U.S. stores were negative 8.6 percent.
"Our markets, and the consumer in general, remain under pressure," said Frank Blake, chairman & CEO. "But we continue to make progress on improving our business as evidenced by stronger customer satisfaction ratings.
"I want to thank our associates for their hard work and dedication. It is their efforts that enable us to deliver these results."
The Company reaffirmed its guidance for fiscal 2009 of sales down 9 percent with negative comparable store sales in the high single digit area and earnings per share from continuing operations down 7 percent.
On June 10 at 8:30 a.m. ET, the Company will hold its Investor and Analyst Conference to update the investment community on key areas of the business. All presentations will be webcast live at homedepot.com in the Investor Relations section.
The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at homedepot.com in the Investor Relations section.
 
At the end of the first quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,238 retail stores, which included 1,973 The Home Depot stores in the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands and the territory of Guam), 178 stores in Canada, 75 stores in Mexico and 12 stores in China. The Company employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index. HDE
To provide clarity about the Company's operating performance for the recently completed fiscal quarter, the Company supplemented its reporting of net earnings and earnings per share with non-GAAP measurements to reflect the impact of the store rationalization charge, business rationalization charges, and related restructuring charges. The Company believes such non-GAAP measurements provide management and investors with meaningful information to understand and analyze the Company's performance. However, this supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the GAAP measurements. A reconciliation of the supplemental information to the comparable GAAP measurements can be found in the attached schedule.
Certain statements contained herein constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services, net sales growth, comparable store sales, impact of cannibalization, store openings and closures, state of the economy, state of residential construction, housing and home improvement markets, commodity price inflation and deflation, implementation of store initiatives, continuation of reinvestment plans, net earnings performance, earnings per share, capital allocation and expenditures, liquidity, return on invested capital, management of the Company's purchasing or customer credit policies, the effect of charges, the planned recapitalization of the Company, timing of the completion of such recapitalization, the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us and financial outlook. Such forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties  many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to us  as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended February 1, 2009.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update such statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 


