FILE:HD/HD-8K-20110302165134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 24, 2011, the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Director of The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Form of Equity Award Terms and Conditions Agreement (the "Form"), which will be used to evidence grants of future awards made to executive officers of the Company under the Company's 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan. The full text of the Form is attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 1, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
In recognition of the value of your continued service as a key employee, The Home Depot, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), on and as of the date specified above (""), hereby grants to you, an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Company's 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (""), a summary of which has been delivered to you, the following awards (collectively referred to as the ""):
Company
Grant Date
Plan
Award
 
 
 
In addition to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Award is subject to and governed by the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. Unless defined in this Equity Award Terms and Conditions Agreement ("") or the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement will have the meanings set forth in the Plan.
Award Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) . Up to [XXX%] of the Performance Share Target Award may be earned upon achievement of the Average Operating Profit target for the Performance Period, in accordance with the following schedule. The Committee will certify Average Operating Profit and vest any earned Performance Shares as soon as administratively practical, but not later than the 90
Average Operating Profit
th
day following the end of the Performance Period.
 
The percentage of the Performance Share Target Award earned between Threshold and Target and Target and Maximum is based on interpolation, as set forth on .
Schedule A
(b) . Up to [XXX%] of the Performance Share Target Award may be earned upon achievement of the Average ROIC target for the Performance Period, in accordance with the following schedule. The Committee will certify Average ROIC and vest any earned Performance Shares as soon as administratively practical, but not later than the 90
Average ROIC
th
day following the end of the Performance Period.
 
 
The percentage of the Performance Share Target Award earned between Threshold and Target and Target and Maximum is based on interpolation, as set forth on .
Schedule A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As used herein, the following terms will be defined as set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


