FILE:HD/HD-8K-20111115074137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 15, 2011, The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended October 30, 2011.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 14, 2011
 
 
 

The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported third quarter of fiscal 2011 net earnings of $934 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $834 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, in the same period of fiscal 2010. For the third quarter of fiscal 2011, diluted earnings per share increased 17.6 percent from the prior year.
ATLANTA, November 15, 2011 
Sales for the third quarter totaled $17.3 billion, a 4.4 percent increase from the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Comparable store sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 were positive 4.2 percent, and comp sales for U.S. stores were positive 3.8 percent.
"Our third quarter was driven by strength in our core categories and storm-related sales as well as strong operating performance," said Frank Blake, chairman & CEO. "We will continue to invest in our core initiatives to provide customers with exceptional customer service and great product values. I would like to thank our associates for their hard work and dedication."
Dividend Increase
The Company today announced that its board of directors declared a 16 percent increase in its quarterly dividend to 29 cents per share. "As a reflection of our progress on the Company's strategic initiatives, the board increased the dividend for the second time this year and has established new capital allocation targets in support of our commitment to create value for our shareholders," said Blake. The dividend is payable on December 15, 2011, to shareholders of record on the close of business on December 1, 2011. This is the 99th consecutive quarter the Company has paid a cash dividend.
Capital Allocation Principles
Combined with today's third quarter earnings announcement, the Company updated its capital allocation principles:
Targeted Capital Structure
The Company announced that it will target a total adjusted debt/EBITDAR ratio of 2.0x. Total adjusted debt includes debt on the balance sheet plus 8x operating rents and certain contingent liabilities, while EBITDAR is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent expense.
Updated Fiscal 2011 Guidance
The Company confirmed that it expects fiscal 2011 sales will be up approximately 2.5 percent from fiscal 2010. Based on its year-to-date performance and outlook for the balance of the year, the Company raised its fiscal 2011 diluted earnings-per-share guidance and now expects diluted earnings-per-share to grow by approximately 18 percent to $2.38 for the year.
The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at earnings.homedepot.com.
At the end of the third quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,246 retail stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, 10 Canadian provinces, Mexico and China. The Company employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
Certain statements contained herein constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services, net sales growth, comparable store sales, state of the economy, state of the residential construction, housing and home improvement markets, state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit, inventory and in-stock positions, commodity price inflation and deflation, implementation of store and supply chain initiatives, continuation of reinvestment plans, net earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, capital allocation and expenditures, liquidity, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, return on invested capital, management of our purchasing or customer credit policies, the effect of accounting charges, the planned recapitalization of the Company and the timing of its completion, the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us, store openings and closures, expense leverage, guidance for fiscal 2011 and beyond and financial outlook. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You are cautioned not to rely on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties  many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to us  as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended January 30, 2011.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
:
For more information, contact
 
 
 
 
 


