FILE:HD/HD-8K-20110222073051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 22, 2011, The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Company's financial results for the fiscal year and quarter ended January 30, 2011.
The information contained in this report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18. Furthermore, the information contained in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 21, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported sales of $15.1 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, a 3.8 percent increase from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Comparable store sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were positive 3.9 percent, and comp sales for U.S. stores were positive 4.8 percent.
ATLANTA, February 22, 2011 
Net earnings from continuing operations for the fourth quarter were $587 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, compared with net earnings from continuing operations of $301 million, or $0.18 per diluted share, in the same period of fiscal 2009. On an adjusted basis, net earnings from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 were $402 million or $0.24 per diluted share.
Fourth quarter fiscal 2009 consolidated net earnings of $342 million include $41 million of net earnings from discontinued operations.
Fiscal 2010
Sales for fiscal 2010 were $68.0 billion, an increase of 2.8 percent from fiscal 2009. Total company comparable store sales for the year increased 2.9 percent, and comps for U.S. stores were positive 2.5 percent for the year.
Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2010 were $2.01, compared to $1.55 per diluted share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009, an increase of 29.7 percent.
Fiscal 2010 results reflect a first quarter net impact to earnings of $33 million related to the extension of the Company's guarantee of an HD Supply senior secured loan. In fiscal 2009, results include strategic charges recorded earlier in the year and the write-down of the Company's investment in HD Supply. On an adjusted basis, the Company reported fiscal 2010 net earnings from continuing operations of $3.4 billion, or $2.03 per diluted share, compared with adjusted net earnings from continuing operations of $2.8 billion, or $1.66 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009.
For fiscal 2010, consolidated net earnings per diluted share were $2.01 on consolidated net earnings of $3.3 billion, compared to consolidated net earnings per diluted share of $1.57 on net earnings of $2.7 billion in fiscal 2009.
"In 2010, we continued to invest in our business and made solid progress against our key initiatives," said Frank Blake, chairman & CEO. "We completed the rollout of our Rapid Deployment Centers, an important part of our distribution network; we saw year-over-year improvement in customer service ratings; and we continued progress on our merchandising transformation. Our actions, coupled with an improving economy, resulted in positive sales growth for the year, the first time since 2006.
"Our associates did an outstanding job in 2010," said Blake. "Their hard work and dedication made these accomplishments possible."
Dividend Increase
The Company today announced that its board of directors declared a 6 percent increase in its quarterly cash dividend to 25 cents per share. "As a testament to our confidence in the Company's strategic initiatives and our commitment to returning capital to our shareholders, the board increased the dividend for the second consecutive year," said Blake. "It is our intent to increase our dividend every year. Our longer-term targeted dividend payout ratio is 40 percent." The dividend is payable on March 24, 2011, to shareholders of record on the close of business on March 10, 2011. This is the 96th consecutive quarter the Company has paid a cash dividend.
Updated Fiscal 2011 Guidance
Today the Company updated its fiscal 2011 guidance and now expects sales to be up approximately 2.5 percent for the year. The Company expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be up approximately 9.5 percent to $2.20, excluding the impact of future share repurchases. Using excess cash, the Company intends to repurchase approximately $2.5 billion of outstanding shares throughout the year.
The Company gave the following additional guidance for fiscal 2011, in-line with the guidance it provided to investors and analysts in December 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at http://earnings.homedepot.com.
At the end of the fourth quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,248 retail stores, which included 1,976 The Home Depot stores in the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands and the territory of Guam), 179 stores in Canada, 85 stores in Mexico and 8 stores in China. The Company employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index.
To provide clarity, internally and externally, about the Company's operating performance for recently completed fiscal periods, the Company supplemented its reporting with non-GAAP financial measures to reflect the impact of the store rationalization charges, business rationalization charges, related restructuring charges, an investment impairment charge related to HD Supply and the charge related to the extension of the Company's guarantee of the HD Supply senior secured loan. The Company
believes that these non-GAAP financial measures better enable management and investors to understand and analyze the Company's performance by providing them with meaningful information relevant to events of unusual nature or frequency that impact the comparability of underlying business results from period to period. However, this supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP measures can be found attached to this press release and at http://earnings.homedepot.com.
Certain statements contained herein constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services, net sales growth, comparable store sales, state of the economy, state of the residential construction, housing and home improvement markets, state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit, inventory and in-stock positions, commodity price inflation and deflation, implementation of store initiatives, implementation of supply chain initiatives, continuation of reinvestment plans, net earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, capital allocation and expenditures, liquidity, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, return on invested capital, management of our purchasing or customer credit policies, the effect of accounting charges, the planned recapitalization of the Company and the timing of its completion, the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us, store openings and closures, expense leverage, fiscal 2011 guidance and financial outlook. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties  many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to us  as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, and in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2010.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain amounts in Diluted Earnings Per Share may not foot due to rounding.
 
 
 


