FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20020812160039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
UNITED STATES                                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION                                               WASHINGTON, DC 20549                                                                                                                                                PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)                                      OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934                                                                                           (Date of earliest event reported)                                           Commission file number 1-7349                                                                               (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)                                                                                              (State of                (Commission             (IRS Employer                          Incorporation)               File No.)           Identification No.)                                                      (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)                                                                                 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)                                                                             (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)                                                 Ball Corporation                                            Current Report on Form 8-K                                               Dated August 12, 2002Item 9.  Regulation FD DisclosureOn June 27, 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an Order requiring the filing of sworn statementspursuant to Section 21(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The Order requires the principal financialofficer and the principal executive officer of the Companies to:     (a)   file a written statement, under oath, that is in a form prescribed by the Securities and Exchange           Commission, including a statement declaring whether or not the contents of that statement have been           reviewed with the company's audit committee, or     (b)   file a written statement, under oath, describing the facts and circumstances that would make such a           statement incorrect and declaring whether or not the contents of that statement have been reviewed           with the company's audit committee.A "covered" report is an Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission,all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K, and all definitive proxy materials of the reporting company filedwith the Commission subsequent to the filing of Form 10-K identified in the statement, and any amendments to any ofthe foregoing.On August 9, 2002, R. David Hoover, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ball Corporationand Raymond J. Seabrook, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ball Corporation, each executed, underoath, statements in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission Order stating that:o        no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered         by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on         which it was filed); ando        no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered         report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the         period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as         of the date on which it was filed).Each officer attests that they have reviewed the contents of the statement with the Audit Committee of the Boardof Directors of Ball Corporation.  A covered report is defined in the statement to include the Annual Report onForm 10-K filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") on March 28, 2002; allreports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Ball Corporation filed withthe Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and any amendments to any of theforegoing through the signature date of the statement.The statements executed by the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ball Corporationand the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ball Corporation are furnished to the Securities andExchange Commission (and not deemed to be filed herewith) and are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 andExhibit 99.2, respectively.                                                     SIGNATUREPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this reportto be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.                                                     BALL CORPORATION                                                     (Registrant)                                                     By:                                                                    Name:  Raymond J. Seabrook                                                              Title:  Senior Vice President and  Chief Financial                                                              OfficerDate:  August 12, 2002                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sworn Statement by the Principal Executive Officer of Ball Corporation                                99.1Regarding the Order Requiring the Filing of Sworn Statements Pursuant toSection 21(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.Sworn Statement by the Principal Financial Officer of Ball Corporation                                99.2Regarding the Order Regarding the Filing of Sworn Statements Pursuant toSection 21(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
August 12, 2002
BALL CORPORATION
Indiana
1-7349
35-0160610
10 Longs Peak Drive, P.O. Box 5000, Broomfield, CO 80021-2510
(303) 469-3131
Not Applicable
/s/ Raymond J. Seabrook
Ball Corporation and Subsidiaries
Form 8-K
August 12, 2002
EXHIBIT INDEX
Description
Exhibit

I, R. David Hoover, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ball Corporation, state andattest that:     (1)   To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Ball Corporation, and,           except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:o        no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered         by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on         which it was filed); ando        no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered         report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the         period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as         of the date on which it was filed).     (2)   I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of           Ball Corporation.     (3)   In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement,           is a "covered report":o        Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission")         on March 28, 2002;o        all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Ball Corporation         filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; ando        any amendments to any of the foregoing.                                              Subscribed and sworn to before me this 9thR. David Hoover                                                  day of August 2002Chairman of the Board, President and ChiefExecutive Officer of Ball Corporation                                                                                              Notary PublicAugust 9, 2002                                                                 My Commission Expires:
Exhibit 99.1
STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO CERTAINEXCHANGE ACT FILINGS
/s/ R. David Hoover
/s/ Suzette D. Compagno
February 3, 2004

I, Raymond J. Seabrook, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ball Corporation, state and attestthat:     (1)   To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Ball Corporation, and,           except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:o        no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered         by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on         which it was filed); ando        no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered         report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the         period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as         of the date on which it was filed).     (2)   I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of           Ball Corporation.     (3)   In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement,           is a "covered report":o        Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission")         on March 28, 2002;o        all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Ball Corporation         filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; ando        any amendments to any of the foregoing.                                          Subscribed and sworn to before me this 9thRaymond J. Seabrook                                              day of August 2002Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officerof Ball Corporation                                                                                                               Notary PublicAugust 9, 2002                                                                 My Commission Expires:
Exhibit 99.2
STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO CERTAINEXCHANGE ACT FILINGS
/s/ Raymond J. Seabrook
/s/ Suzette D. Compagno
February 3, 2004


