FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20021231124103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 December 19, 2002 (Date of earliest event reported) Commission file number 1-7349 BALL CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Indiana 1-7349 35-0160610 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File No.) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 10 Longs Peak Drive, P.O. Box 5000, Broomfield, CO 80021-2510 (Address of principal executive offices, including ZIP code) (303) 469-3131 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Ball Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K Dated December 19, 2002 Item 2. Acquisition or Disposition of Assets. On December 19, 2002, Ball Corporation (the "Company"), through an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, completed the acquisition (the "Acquisition") of 100% of the capital stock of Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH ("Schmalbach"), the second largest manufacturer of metal beverage containers in Europe, from Schmalbach-Lubeca Holdings GmbH ("S-L Holdings"). The Acquisition was accomplished pursuant to, and in accordance with, the terms of a Share Sale and Transfer Agreement, dated August 29/30, 2002 (the "Acquisition Agreement"), among the Company, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., S-L Holdings and AV Packaging GmbH, as amended. A copy of the Acquisition Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Ball's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2002 and the amendment to the Acquisition Agreement, dated December 18, 2002, is filed as Exhibit 2.2 hereto and both are incorporated herein by reference. Schmalbach will be operated as an indirect, wholly-owned European subsidiary of the Company, and the Company intends to continue to use the plants, equipment and other physical property obtained in the Acquisition to produce beverage containers. The purchase price was approximately (euro)922.3 million, or $942.3 million, subject to certain adjustments and excluding fees and expenses. The purchase price paid by the Company was determined on the basis of arm's length negotiations between the parties. No prior material relationships existed between S-L Holdings and its respective affiliates, directors or officers, on the one hand, and the Company and its respective affiliates, directors or officers, on the other hand. At the time the Acquisition was consummated, the Company also refinanced approximately $389 million outstanding principal amount of its existing indebtedness (the "Refinancing"). The Acquisition and the Refinancing were financed by the placement of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2012 pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and new credit facilities in the amount of up to the aggregate U.S. dollar equivalent of $1.35 billion in various tranches (the "New Credit Facilities") with Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian Administrative Agent, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Bank One, NA, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and various lending institutions, of which $1.058 billion was utilized upon consummation of the Acquisition and Refinancing. The New Credit Facilities are more fully described below. The purchase agreement, registration rights agreement and indenture relating to the Senior Notes are attached hereto as Exhibits 1.1, 4.1 and 4.2, respectively. The New Credit Facilities are comprised of term loan facilities in the amounts of $350 million, (euro)414 million and (pound)79 million and revolving credit facilities in an aggregate U.S. dollar equivalent amount of $450 million. For purposes of calculating interest, loans under the New Credit Facilities will be designated as Eurocurrency Rate Loans or, in certain circumstances, Base Rate Loans or Canadian Prime Rate Loans. Eurocurrency Rate Loans that are U.S. dollar denominated are expected to bear interest at the interbank eurocurrency rate plus a borrowing margin. Eurocurrency Rate Loans that are non-U.S. dollar denominated are expected to bear interest at the LIBOR Rate for Sterling and EURIBOR Rate for Euros plus a borrowing margin. Base Rate Loans are expected to bear interest at (a) the greater of (i) the rate most recently announced by Deutsche Bank as its "prime rate" or (ii) the Federal Funds Rate plus a borrowing margin; plus (b) a further borrowing margin. Canadian Prime Rate Loans are expected to bear interest at the higher of (a) the annual rate of interest announced publicly by the Canadian Administrative Agent and in effect as its prime rate on such day for determining interest rates on Canadian dollar-denominated commercial loans made in Canada and (b) the CDOR Rate in effect on such date plus a borrowing margin. The New Credit Facilities are guaranteed by the Company and all of its present and future material domestic subsidiaries. The New Credit Facilities are secured by a valid first priority perfected lien or pledge on 100% of the stock of each of the Company's present and future direct and indirect material domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the stock of a European holding company formed under Luxembourg law and any other present and future material first tier foreign subsidiaries, to the extent owned by the Company and its domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The obligations under the Canadian portion of the revolving credit facility are also (i) guaranteed by Ball North America, Inc., the Canadian borrower's parent and any future material Canadian subsidiaries and (ii) secured by a lien or pledge on 100% of stock of the Canadian borrower and any future material Canadian subsidiaries. The obligations of the European borrowers also are guaranteed and cross guaranteed by the European borrower holding company and certain of the European holding company's direct and indirect material subsidiaries and are secured by a valid first priority perfected lien or pledge on 100% of the stock of certain of the direct and indirect material subsidiaries of the European holding company. The credit agreement relating to the New Credit Facilities is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. Item 5. Other Events. On December 19, 2002, the Company completed the issuance of its 6 7/8% Senior Notes in the aggregate principal amount of $300 million pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The proceeds of the offering, net of fees and expenses, were approximately $293 million. The Company's obligations under the 6 7/8% Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by certain of the Company's existing and future material domestic subsidiaries. On December 19, 2002, the amendments to the Company's indentures governing its 7 3/4% senior notes due in 2006 and its 8 1/4% senior subordinated notes due in 2008 became operative pursuant to the terms of the Company's previously announced consent solicitation with respect to the amendments. The amended and restated indentures which reflect these amendments are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.3 and 4.4. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. (a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired. The financial statements of the acquired business, Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans, have been omitted from this report in reliance on Item 7(a)(4) of Form 8-K and will be filed in an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K within 60 days of the date hereof. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. The pro forma financial information required by this item has been omitted from this report in reliance on Item 7(b)(2) of Form 8-K and will be filed in an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K within 60 days of the date hereof. (c) Exhibits The following are furnished as Exhibits to this report. Exhibit 1.1 Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 5, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, Lehman Brothers, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc., McDonald Investments Inc., SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC and certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation. Exhibit 2.1 Share Sale and Transfer Agreement dated August 29/30, 2002, among Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, AV Packaging GmbH, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Ball Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2002). Exhibit 2.2 Amendment Agreement, dated December 18, 2002, among Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, AV Packaging GmbH, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., Ball Corporation and Ball (Germany) Acquisition GmbH, amending the Share Sale and Transfer Agreement, dated August 29/30, 2002, among Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, AV Packaging GmbH, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. and Ball Corporation. Exhibit 4.1 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, Lehman Brothers, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc., McDonald Investments Inc., SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC and certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation. Exhibit 4.2 Senior Note Indenture, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. Exhibit 4.3 Amended and Restated Senior Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998, and amended and restated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Senior Note Trustee. Exhibit 4.4 Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998, and amended and restated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Exhibit 4.5 Form of Note (included in Exhibit 4.2). Exhibit 10.1 Credit Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2002, among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiaries of Ball Corporation, with Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian Administrative Agent, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Bank One, NA, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and various lending institutions named therein.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. BALL CORPORATION (Registrant) Date: December 31, 2002 By: /s/ Donald C. Lewis -------------------------------- Name: Donald C. Lewis Title: Vice President, Assistant Corporate Secretary and General Counsel
Ball Corporation and Subsidiaries Form 8-K December 19, 2002 EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit 1.1 Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 5, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, Lehman Brothers, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc., McDonald Investments Inc., SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC and certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation. Exhibit 2.1 Share Sale and Transfer Agreement dated August 29/30, 2002, among Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, AV Packaging GmbH, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. and Ball Corporation (filed by incorporation by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Ball Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2002). Exhibit 2.2 Amendment Agreement, dated December 18, 2002, among Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, AV Packaging GmbH, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., Ball Corporation and Ball (Germany) Acquisition GmbH, amending the Share Sale and Transfer Agreement, dated August 29/30, 2002, among Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, AV Packaging GmbH, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. and Ball Corporation. Exhibit 4.1 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, Lehman Brothers, Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc., McDonald Investments Inc., SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC and certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation. Exhibit 4.2 Senior Note Indenture, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. Exhibit 4.3 Amended and Restated Senior Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998, and amended and restated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Senior Note Trustee. Exhibit 4.4 Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998, and amended and restated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiary guarantors of Ball Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Exhibit 4.5 Form of Note (included in Exhibit 4.2). Exhibit 10.1 Credit Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2002, among Ball Corporation, certain subsidiaries of Ball Corporation, with Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian Administrative Agent, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Bank One, NA, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and BNP Paribas, as Co-Documentation Agents, and various lending institutions named therein.

Exhibit 1.1 BALL CORPORATION $300,000,000 6 7/8% Senior Notes Due 2012 PURCHASE AGREEMENT December 5, 2002 LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC BANC ONE CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. BNP Paribas Securities Corp. Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc. McDonald Investments Inc. SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC as representatives of the several initial purchasers c/o Lehman Brothers Inc. 745 7th Avenue New York, New York 10019 Ladies and Gentlemen: Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to you (the "Initial Purchasers") $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount at maturity of its 6 7/8 % Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Series A Notes"). The Series A Notes will (i) have terms and provisions which are summarized in the Offering Memorandum (as defined herein) dated as of the date hereof and (ii) are to be issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Indenture") to be entered into between the Company, each of the Guarantors listed on Exhibit A hereto (each a "Guarantor", and together, the "Guarantors") and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Company's obligations under the Series A Notes and the Company's 6 7/8% Series B Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Series B Notes", and together with the Series A Notes, the "Notes") to be offered in exchange for the Series A Notes, including the due and punctual payment of interest on the Notes, will be unconditionally guaranteed (the "Guarantees") by each of the Guarantors. As used herein, the terms "Series A Notes" and "Series B Notes" shall include the Guarantees thereof by the Guarantors, unless the context otherwise requires. The Company, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., and Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH and AV Packaging GmbH (together with Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, "Schmalbach-Lubeca") have entered into a Share Sale and Transfer Agreement on August 29, 2002 (the "Acquisition Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company will purchase 100% of the capital stock of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG, which will be converted into a GmbH prior to the closing of the Acquisition ("Schmalbach"), for approximately (euro)925.5 million, subject to certain adjustments and the assumption of certain debt and liabilities (the "Acquisition"). Concurrent with the closing of the Acquisition, the Company is entering into a Tranche A Euro/Sterling Term Loan Facility, a Tranche B Euro Term Loan Facility, a Tranche B Dollar Term Loan Facility and New Revolving Credit Facilities under a credit agreement (the "Credit Facilities") pursuant to which it will borrow up to $1,350 million to fund a portion of the purchase price for Schmalbach and to refinance certain of the Company's existing debt. The issue and sale of the Series A Notes, the acquisition of Schmalbach, the consummation of the Credit Facilities and the consent solicitation to amend the Company's existing senior notes and senior subordinated notes and the refinancing of certain of the Company's existing debt will take place concurrently. The closing of the Acquisition is a condition to the closing of the offering. Such condition may be waived by the Company if the proceeds from the issuance of the Series A Notes are placed into a secured proceeds account at the Closing Date, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Indenture. As described in the Offering Memorandum, proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Series A Notes, together with borrowings under the Credit Facilities, will be used to consummate the Acquisition and related transactions. 1. Preliminary Offering Memorandum and Offering Memorandum. The Series A Notes will be offered and sold to you pursuant to exemptions from the registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Company and the Guarantors have prepared a preliminary offering memorandum, dated November 25, 2002 (the "Preliminary Offering Memorandum"), and a final offering memorandum, dated December 5, 2002 (the "Offering Memorandum"), relating to the Company, the Guarantors, the Series A Notes, the Guarantees, the Series B Notes and the Series B Guarantees (as defined herein). The Company and the Guarantors hereby confirm that they have authorized the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum in connection with the offering and resale of the Series A Notes by the Initial Purchasers. It is understood and acknowledged that upon original issuance thereof, and until such time as the same is no longer required under the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Series A Notes (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or in substitution thereof) shall bear the following legend: "THE NOTES EVIDENCED HEREBY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT (A)(1) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (2) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (3) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE), (4) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR (5) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND (B) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE BLUE SKY LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES." You have represented and warranted to the Company that you will make offers (the "Exempt Resales") of the Series A Notes purchased by you hereunder on the terms set forth in the Offering Memorandum solely to (i) persons whom you reasonably believe to be "Qualified Institutional Buyers" as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act ("QIBs") and (ii) certain persons outside the United States in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Those persons specified in clauses (i) and (ii) are referred to herein as the "Eligible Purchasers". You will offer the Series A Notes to Eligible Purchasers initially at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof. Such price may be changed at any time without notice. Holders (including subsequent transferees) of the Series A Notes will have the registration rights set forth in the registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), to be dated December 19, 2002 (the "Closing Date") (which Registration Rights Agreement shall be in substantially the form of that certain registration rights agreement dated August 10, 1998 among Ball Corporation, the subsidiary guarantors thereto, and the initial purchasers thereto, with such changes as the parties may agree), for so long as such Series A Notes constitute "Transfer Restricted Securities" (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement). Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors will agree to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), under the circumstances set forth therein, (i) a registration statement under the Securities Act (the "Exchange Offer Registration Statement") relating to the Company's Series B Notes to be offered in exchange for the Series A Notes and the Guarantees (such offer to exchange being referred to collectively as the "Exchange Offer") or (ii) a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (the "Shelf Registration Statement," and together with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the "Registration Statements") relating to the resale of each tranche of the Series A Notes by certain holders of such Notes, and to use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statements to be declared effective. This Agreement, the Indenture, and the Registration Rights Agreement are hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Operative Documents". 2. Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Company and the Guarantors. The Company and each of the Guarantors (as of the date hereof and the Closing Date) represent, warrant and agree as follows (and all of such representations and warranties shall be deemed to include Schmalbach, and all references to the Company in this Section shall assume that the Company has acquired Schmalbach as of the date hereof): (a) The Preliminary Offering Memorandum and Offering Memorandum have been prepared by the Company for use by the Initial Purchasers in connection with the Exempt Resales. No order or decree preventing the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, or any order asserting that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act, has been issued and no proceeding for that purpose has commenced or is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, is contemplated. (b) The Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Offering Memorandum and the Company's filings with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") that are incorporated by reference therein as of their respective dates did not, and the Offering Memorandum as of the Closing Date will not, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary, in order to make the statements contained therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers expressly for use therein. (c) The market-related and industry data included in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum are based upon estimates by the Company derived from sources which the Company believes to be reliable and accurate in all material respects. (d) The Company is a corporation duly incorporated and validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the state of Indiana with all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, and is duly qualified to conduct its business and is in good standing as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction or place where the nature of its properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to qualify or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, business, prospects, properties or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Effect"). (e) Each of the Company's subsidiaries is a corporation duly incorporated and validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its state of organization with full corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as presently conducted, and is duly qualified to conduct its business and is in good standing as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction where the nature of its properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing does not have a Material Adverse Effect. (f) The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Notes. (g) Each Guarantor has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Guarantees. (h) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each Guarantor and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Initial Purchasers, constitutes the valid and binding agreement of the Company and each Guarantor, enforceable against the Company and each Guarantor in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and (iv) except as rights to indemnity and contribution hereunder may be limited by Federal or state securities laws or principles of public policy. (i) The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company and each Guarantor and, upon its execution and delivery by the Company and each Guarantor and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Initial Purchasers, will constitute the valid and binding agreement of the Company and each Guarantor, enforceable against the Company and each Guarantor in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and (iv) except as rights to indemnity and contribution hereunder may be limited by Federal or state securities laws or principles of public policy. The Registration Rights Agreement will conform to the description thereof in the Offering Memorandum in all material respects. (j) The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and each Guarantor, and upon its execution and delivery by the Company and each Guarantor and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, will constitute the valid and binding agreement of the Company and each Guarantor, enforceable against the Company and each Guarantor in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. No qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), is required in connection with the offer and sale of the Series A Notes contemplated hereby or in connection with the Exempt Resales other than in connection with the performance of the Company's obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement. The Indenture will conform to the description thereof in the Offering Memorandum in all material respects. (k) The Series A Notes have been duly authorized by the Company and when duly executed by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and, assuming due authentication, execution and delivery of the Series A Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, upon delivery to the Initial Purchasers against payment therefor in accordance with the terms hereof, will have been validly issued and delivered, and will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and (iv) except as rights to indemnity and contribution hereunder may be limited by Federal or state securities laws or principles of public policy. The Series A Notes will conform to the description thereof in the Offering Memorandum in all material respects. (l) The Guarantees to be endorsed on the Series A Notes have been duly authorized by each Guarantor and, if and when executed and delivered by each Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and, assuming due authentication of the Series A Notes by the Trustee, upon delivery to the Initial Purchasers against payment therefor in accordance with the terms hereof, have been validly issued and delivered, and will constitute valid and binding obligations of each of the Guarantors, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, enforceable against each of the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The Guarantees will conform to the description thereof in the Offering Memorandum in all material respects. (m) The Series B Notes will have been duly authorized by the Company on or before the Closing Date and, if and when duly issued and authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered in accordance with the Exchange Offer provided for in the Registration Rights Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and (iv) except as rights to indemnity and contribution hereunder may be limited by Federal or state securities laws or principles of public policy. The Series B Notes will conform to the description thereof in the Offering Memorandum in all material respects. (n) The guarantees to be endorsed on the Series B Notes (the "Series B Guarantees") will have been duly authorized by each Guarantor on or before the Closing Date and, if and when executed and delivered by each Guarantor, if and when the Series B Notes are issued and authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture, the Series B Guarantees to be endorsed on the Series B Notes will be the valid and binding obligation of each Guarantor, enforceable against each Guarantor in accordance with their terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (o) The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into the Credit Facilities and any and all other agreements and instruments ancillary to or entered into in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Facilities (collectively, the "Credit Documents"). (p) Each of the Credit Documents was duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties thereto, constitutes the valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its respective terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (q) Each of the Company and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into the Acquisition Agreement and any and all other agreements, side letters and instruments ancillary to or entered into in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. (r) The Acquisition Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties thereto, constitutes the valid and binding agreement of each of the Company and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., enforceable against each of the Company and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (s) All the shares of capital stock, partnership, membership or other equity interest of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Offering Memorandum) and other material subsidiaries outstanding prior to the issuance of the Series A Notes have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable. All of the issued shares of the capital stock, partnership, membership or other equity interest of each subsidiary of the Company are owned directly or indirectly by the Company (except for directors' qualifying shares), free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, or claims, except for those liens, encumbrances or claims that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. (t) Other than as disclosed in the Offering Memorandum, the Company does not own capital stock or other equity interests of any corporation or entity which would be required by the Indenture to be a Guarantor thereunder. All of the Company's domestic subsidiaries other than (i) Ball Corporation (a Nevada corporation), Ball Glass Containers, Inc., Ball Metal Container Corporation, Ball Technology Licensing Corporation, Heekin Can, Inc., Muncie & Western Railroad Company, Ball Asia Services Limited, Ball Glass Container Corporation, Ball Holdings Corp., Ball Technology Services Corporation, Laser Communications International L.L.C., Space Operations International, L.L.C. and any other Excluded Subsidiaries (as defined in the Offering Memorandum (the "Excluded Subsidiaries") and (ii) Ball Asia Pacific, Ball Capital Corp. and any other Unrestricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Offering Memorandum) (the "Unrestricted Subsidiaries") are Guarantors hereunder; and as of the date hereof, the Excluded Subsidiaries have aggregate net sales of not more than $10 million in any twelve-month period and aggregate assets, including capitalization, of not more than $10 million. (u) There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company or any of the Guarantors, expressly contemplated by, or threatened, against the Company or any of the Guarantors or to which any of its properties are subject, that are not disclosed in the Offering Memorandum and are reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or to materially and adversely affect the issuance of the Notes or the consummation of the other transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents. Except as disclosed in the Offering Memorandum, neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors is involved in any strike, job action or labor dispute with any group of employees that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and, to the knowledge of the Company and each of the Guarantors, no such action or dispute is threatened. (v) No material relationship, direct or indirect, exists between or among the Company or any of the Guarantors on the one hand, and the directors, officers, shareholders, members, partners, customers or suppliers of the Company on the other hand, that would be required to be described in the Offering Memorandum pursuant to Regulation S-K of the Securities Act if Regulation S-K were applicable to the Offering Memorandum, which is not so described in the Offering Memorandum. (w) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries (i) is in violation of its certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other organizational documents, (ii) is in default in any material respect in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their respective properties or assets is subject that is material to the Company's consolidated financial condition or prospects (collectively, the "Material Agreements") or (iii) is in violation in any material respect of any law, statute or ordinance or any rule, regulation, injunction or decree of any court or governmental agency to which their property or assets may be subject or has failed to obtain any material license, permit, certificate, franchise, or other governmental authorization or permit necessary to the ownership of its property or to the conduct of its business, except in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. (x) Except (i) as has been obtained or completed or (ii) to the extent the failure to obtain any such consent, approval, authorization or order or to make any such filing or registration would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, none of (A) the issuance, offer or sale of the Series A Notes, the execution, delivery, or performance by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of this Agreement, the Guarantees or the other Operative Documents, compliance by the Company and its subsidiaries with the provisions hereof or thereof or the consummation by the Company or such subsidiaries of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; (B) the execution, delivery or performance by the Company of the Credit Facilities or the other Credit Documents, compliance by the Company with the provisions thereof or consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby; and (C) the execution, delivery or performance by the Company and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. of the Acquisition Agreement, compliance by each of the Company and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. with the provisions thereof, or consummation by the Company and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. of the transactions contemplated thereby (1) requires any consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, or other governmental body, agency or official (except as such as may be required in connection with the registration under the Securities Act of the Series B Notes in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, under the TIA for the issuance of the Series B Notes, the trading of the Series A Notes on PORTAL and under the securities or "Blue Sky" laws of various jurisdictions in connection with the sale of the Series A Notes), (2) or conflicts or will conflict with or constitutes or will constitute a breach of, or a default under, the charter or bylaws, or other organizational documents, of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (3) conflicts or will conflict with or constitutes or will constitute a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or (including with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both) constitute a default under, any Material Agreement or (4) violates in any material respect any law, statute or ordinance, or any rule, regulation, injunction or decree of any court or governmental agency to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their property or assets may be subject or results in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company (except for liens arising under the Credit Documents and the accounts receivables financing facility of Schmalbach and certain of its subsidiaries entered into on June 27, 2002) pursuant to the terms of any agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it may be bound or to which any of its property or assets is subject. (y) The accountants, PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP and PwC Deutsche Revision Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft, who have certified certain of the financial statements included as part of the Offering Memorandum and who have delivered and will deliver the letters referred to in Section 8(i) hereof, are and were independent public accountants as required by the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder during the period covered by the financial statements on which they reported contained in the Offering Memorandum. (z) The consolidated and combined historical financial statements, and pro forma financial information, together with the related notes thereto, set forth in the Offering Memorandum comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act applicable to registration statements on Form S-3 under the Securities Act. Such historical financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial position of the Company at the respective dates indicated and the results of operations and cash flows for the respective periods indicated, subject, in the case of unaudited combined financial statements, to year-end audit adjustments, in each case in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), or International Accounting Standards ("IAS") in the case of Schmalbach, consistently applied throughout such periods. Such pro forma financial information has been prepared on a basis consistent with the historical and proposed transactions contemplated by the Offering Memorandum and this Agreement. The other financial information and data included in the Offering Memorandum, historical and pro forma, are, in all material respects, accurately presented and prepared on a basis consistent with such financial statements and the books and records of the Company. (aa) Except as disclosed in or specifically contemplated by the Offering Memorandum, subsequent to the date as of which such information was given, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, or entered into any transaction, in each case not in the ordinary course of business, that is material to the Company or such subsidiary, (ii) there has been no Material Adverse Effect, and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the Offering Memorandum, since the date of the latest audited combined financial statements of the Company included in the Offering Memorandum, there has been no (A) dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock (other than the payment of regular quarterly cash dividends), (B) issuance of securities (other than pursuant to the Company's or such subsidiary's employee benefit plans and agreements and the issuance of the Series A Notes offered hereby) or (C) material increase in short-term or long-term debt of the Company or such subsidiary. (bb) The Company and each of its subsidiaries will, on or prior to the Closing Date, have good and valid title to all property owned by it, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests or other encumbrances and defects except such as are described in the Offering Memorandum, granted pursuant to the Credit Facilities, or such as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and all material real property and buildings held under lease by the Company or any of its subsidiaries are held under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, with such exceptions as would not have a Material Adverse Effect. (cc) The Company and each of its subsidiaries will, on or prior to the Closing Date, have such permits, licenses, franchises, certificates, consents, orders and other approvals or authorizations of any governmental or regulatory authority ("Permits") as are necessary under applicable law to own its properties and to conduct its businesses in the manner described in the Offering Memorandum, except to the extent that the failure to have such Permits would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and each of its subsidiaries is in compliance in all material respects with all its material obligations with respect to the Permits, and, to the knowledge of the Company, no event has occurred which allows, or after notice or lapse of time would allow, revocation or termination thereof or results in any other material impairment of the rights of the holder of any such Permit, subject in each case to such qualification as may be set forth in the Offering Memorandum and except to the extent that any such revocation, termination or impairment would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. (dd) The Company is not currently, nor will it be upon sale of the Series A Notes in accordance herewith and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Offering Memorandum under the caption "Use of Proceeds," an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. (ee) Neither the Company nor any affiliate (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D ("Regulation D") under the Securities Act) of the Company has directly, or through any agent, (i) sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act) which is or could be integrated with the offering and sale of the Series A Notes in a manner that would require the registration of the Series A Notes under the Securities Act or (ii) engaged in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with the offering of the Series A Notes in the United States, provided that no representation or warranty is made with respect to the Initial Purchasers and their affiliates in such respect. No securities of the same class as the Series A Notes have been issued and sold by the Company within the six-month period immediately prior to the date hereof. (ff) Except as permitted by the Securities Act, the Company has not distributed and, prior to the Closing Date will not distribute, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Series A Notes other than the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and Offering Memorandum. (gg) When the Series A Notes are issued and delivered pursuant to this Agreement, such Series A Notes will not be of the same class (within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act) as securities of the Company that are listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act, or that are quoted in a United States automated inter-dealer quotation system. (hh) Assuming (i) that the Series A Notes are issued, sold and delivered under the circumstances contemplated by the Offering Memorandum and this Agreement, (ii) that your representations and warranties in Section 3 are true, (iii) compliance by you with your covenants set forth in Section 3 and (iv) that each of the Eligible Purchasers is either (A) an entity that you reasonably believe to be a QIB or (B) a person who is not a "U.S. person" and who acquires the Series A Notes outside the United States in an "offshore transaction" (within the meaning of Regulation S), the purchase of the Series A Notes by you pursuant hereto and the initial resale of the Series A Notes pursuant to the Exempt Resales are not required to be registered under the Securities Act. (ii) To the knowledge of the Company, the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the other Operative Documents and the sale of the Series A Notes to be purchased by the Eligible Purchasers will not involve any prohibited transaction within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The representation made by the Company in the preceding sentence is made in reliance upon and subject to the accuracy of, and compliance with, the representations and covenants made or deemed made by the Eligible Purchasers as set forth in the Offering Memorandum under the section entitled "Notice to Investors". (jj) Except as described in the Offering Memorandum, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person granting such person the right to require the Company to file a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to any securities of the Company owned or to be owned by such person or to require the Company to include such securities in the securities registered pursuant to the Registration Statements or in any securities being registered pursuant to any other registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act. (kk) The Company and each of its subsidiaries together maintain or are entitled to the benefits of insurance covering their properties, operations, personnel and businesses. Such insurance insures against such losses and risks as are reasonably adequate in accordance with customary industry practice to protect the Company and its subsidiaries and their businesses taken as a whole. (ll) The Company has filed all Federal, state and local income and franchise tax returns required to be filed through the date hereof (other than those the nonfiling of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect) and has paid all taxes due thereon, other than those being contested in good faith and for which reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP, or IAS in the case of Schmalbach, currently payable without penalty or interest, or the nonpayment of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect. No tax deficiency has been determined adversely to the Company nor does the Company have any knowledge of any tax deficiency which, if determined adversely to the Company, would have a Material Adverse Effect. (mm) Except as set forth in the Offering Memorandum, there has been no storage, disposal, generation, transportation, handling or treatment of toxic wastes, medical wastes, hazardous wastes or hazardous substances by the Company (or, to the knowledge of the Company, any of their predecessors in interest) at, upon or from any of the property now or previously owned or leased by the Company in violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation or order, or which would require remedial action under any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation or order, except for any violation or remedial action which would not be reasonably likely to have, singularly or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; except as set forth in, or specifically contemplated by, the Offering Memorandum there has been no material spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release of any kind onto such property or into the environment surrounding such property of any toxic wastes, solid wastes, hazardous wastes or hazardous substances due to or caused by the Company or with respect to which the Company has knowledge, except for any such spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release which would not be reasonably likely to have, singularly or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and the terms "hazardous wastes," "medical wastes," "toxic wastes," and "hazardous substances" shall have the meanings specified in any applicable local, state, federal and foreign laws or regulations with respect to environmental protection. (nn) None of the Company or any of its affiliates or any person acting on its or their behalf has engaged or will engage during the applicable restricted period in any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Rule 902(c) of Regulation S with respect to the Series A Notes, and the Company and its affiliates and all persons acting on its or their behalf have complied with and will comply with the offering restrictions requirements of Regulation S in connection with any offering of the Series A Notes outside of the United States; provided, that no representation is made by the Company or the Guarantors as to the Initial Purchasers or any person acting on their behalf. (oo) The sale of the Series A Notes pursuant to Regulation S are "offshore transactions" and are not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration provisions of the Securities Act. (pp) Prior to the date hereof, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has taken any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which reasonably would have been expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any debt security of the Company or its subsidiaries in connection with the offering of the Series A Notes. 3. Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Initial Purchasers. (a) Each of the Initial Purchasers hereby represents and warrants to the Company and the Guarantors that it will offer the Series A Notes for sale upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Offering Memorandum. Each of the Initial Purchasers hereby represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Company and the Guarantors that such Initial Purchaser (i) is a QIB with such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as are necessary in order to evaluate the merits and risks of an investment in the Series A Notes; (ii) is purchasing the Series A Notes pursuant to a private sale exempt from registration under the Securities Act; (iii) in connection with the Exempt Resales, will solicit offers to buy the Series A Notes only from, and will offer to sell the Series A Notes only to, the Eligible Purchasers in accordance with this Agreement and on the terms contemplated by the Offering Memorandum; and (iv) will not offer or sell the Series A Notes, nor has it offered or sold the Series A Notes by, or otherwise engaged in, any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D; including, but not limited to, advertisements, articles, notices or other communications published in any newspaper, magazine, or similar medium or broadcast over television or radio, or any seminar or meeting whose attendees have been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising) or in any manner involving a public offering (within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act) of the Series A Notes. (b) Each of the Initial Purchasers understands that the Series A Notes have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act or outside the U.S. in accordance with Regulation S or to, or for the account or benefit of, non-U.S. persons in accordance with Regulation S. Each of the Initial Purchasers represents and agrees that it has not offered, sold or delivered the Series A Notes, and will not offer, sell or deliver the Series A Notes (i) as part of its distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering and the Closing Date or such longer period as may then be applicable under Regulation S (such period, the "Restricted Period"), within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons, except in accordance with Rule l44A under the Securities Act or another applicable exemption. Accordingly, each of the Initial Purchasers represents and agrees that neither it, its affiliates nor any persons acting on its or their behalf has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Rule 902(b) of Regulation S with respect to the Series A Notes, and it, its affiliates and all persons acting on its behalf have complied and will comply with the offering restriction requirements of Regulation S. (c) Each of the Initial Purchasers agrees that at or prior to confirmation of all sales of the Series A Notes pursuant to Regulation S, it will have sent to each distributor, dealer or person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases Series A Notes from it during the Restricted Period a confirmation or notice substantially to the following effect: "The Notes covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and may not be offered and sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering or the closing date, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S or Rule 144A if available under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings assigned to them in Regulation S." Each of the Initial Purchasers further agrees that it has not entered and will not enter into any contractual arrangement with respect to the distribution or delivery of the Series A Notes, except with its affiliates or with the prior written consent of the Company. (d) Each of the Initial Purchasers agrees not to cause any advertisement of the Series A Notes to be published in any newspaper or periodical or posted in any public place and not to issue any circular relating to the Series A Notes, except such advertisements as may be permitted by Regulation S. (e) The sales of the Series A Notes pursuant to Regulation S are "offshore transactions" and are not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration provisions of the Securities Act. (f) Each of the Initial Purchasers understands that the Company and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to you pursuant to Section 7 hereof, counsel to the Company and counsel to the Initial Purchasers, will rely upon the accuracy and truth of the foregoing representations and you hereby consent to such reliance. (g) Each of the Initial Purchasers understands that the Company and the Guarantors and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to Sections 8(d) and 8(e) hereof, counsel to the Company and counsel to the Initial Purchasers, will rely upon the accuracy and truth of the foregoing representations, warranties and agreements and the Initial Purchasers hereby consents to such reliance. (h) Each Initial Purchaser represents and agrees that (i) it has not offered or sold, and prior to the date which is six months after the issue date of the Series A Notes will not offer or sell, any Series A Notes to persons in the United Kingdom, except to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or as agent) for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances which do not constitute an offer to the public in the United Kingdom for the purposes of the of the Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995 ("POSR"); (ii) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA") with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Series A Notes in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom; and (iii) it has only communicated or caused to communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of section 21 of the FSMA) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Series A Notes in circumstances in which section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company. The terms used in this Section 3 that have meanings assigned to them in Regulation S are used herein as so defined. 4. Purchase and Resale of the Notes by the Initial Purchasers. The Company and the Guarantors hereby agree, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements of the Initial Purchasers contained herein and subject to all the terms and conditions set forth herein, to issue and sell to the Initial Purchasers and, upon the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Guarantors herein contained and subject to all the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 98.5% of the principal amount thereof, the principal amount of Notes set forth opposite the name of such Initial Purchaser in Schedule I hereto. The Company and the Guarantors shall not be obligated to deliver any of the securities to be delivered hereunder except upon payment for all of the Series A Notes to be purchased as provided herein. 5. Delivery and Payment. Delivery to the Initial Purchasers of and payment for the Series A Notes shall be made at the office of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meager & Flom (Illinois), 333 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois, at 7:00 A.M., Chicago time, on the Closing Date, or such other place or time as you and the Company shall designate. The Series A Notes will be delivered to the Initial Purchasers against payment by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer to such account or accounts as the Company shall specify prior to the Closing Date or by such means as the parties hereto shall agree prior to the Closing Date in immediately available funds, by causing The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") to credit the Series A Notes to the account of the Initial Purchasers at DTC. The Series A Notes will be evidenced by one or more global securities in definitive form (the "Global Notes") and/or by additional definitive securities, and will be registered, in the case of the Global Notes, in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of DTC, and in the other cases, in such names and in such denominations as the Initial Purchasers shall request prior to 9:30 A.M., New York City time, on the second business day preceding the Closing Date. The Series A Notes to be delivered to the Initial Purchasers shall be made available to the Initial Purchasers in New York City for inspection and packaging not later than 9:30 A.M., New York City time, on the business day next preceding the Closing Date. 6. Agreements of the Company and the Guarantors. The Company and each of the Guarantors agrees: (a) To advise you promptly and, if requested by you, to confirm such advice in writing, of (i) the issuance by any state securities commission of any stop order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Series A Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose by the Commission or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority, and (ii) the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Offering Memorandum untrue or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Offering Memorandum in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Company and each Guarantor shall use its reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order or order suspending the qualification or exemption of the Series A Notes under any state securities or Blue Sky laws and, if at any time any state securities commission shall issue any stop order suspending the qualification or exemption of the Series A Notes under any state securities or Blue Sky laws, the Company and each Guarantor shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time. (b) To furnish to you, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, and any amendments or supplements thereto, as you may reasonably request. The Company and each Guarantor consents to the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, and any amendments and supplements thereto required pursuant to this Agreement, by you in connection with the Exempt Resales that are in compliance with this Agreement. (c) Not to amend or supplement the Offering Memorandum prior to the Closing Date unless you shall previously have been advised of, and shall not have reasonably objected to, such amendment or supplement within a reasonable time, but in any event not longer than five days after being furnished a copy of such amendment or supplement. The Company shall reasonably promptly prepare, upon any reasonable request by you, any amendment or supplement to the Offering Memorandum that may be necessary or advisable in connection with Exempt Resales. If, in connection with any Exempt Resales or market-making transactions after the date of this Agreement and prior to the consummation of the Exchange Offer, any event shall occur that, in the judgment of the Company or in the judgment of counsel to you, makes any statement of a material fact in the Offering Memorandum untrue or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Offering Memorandum in order to make the statements in the Offering Memorandum, in light of the circumstances at the time that the Offering Memorandum is delivered to prospective Eligible Purchasers, not misleading, or if it is necessary to amend or supplement the Offering Memorandum to comply in all material respects with any applicable laws, the Company shall promptly notify you of such event and prepare an appropriate amendment or supplement to the Offering Memorandum so that (i) the statements in the Offering Memorandum as amended or supplemented will, in light of the circumstances at the time that the Offering Memorandum is delivered to prospective Eligible Purchasers, not be misleading and (ii) the Offering Memorandum will comply in all material respects with applicable law. (d) To cooperate with you and your counsel in connection with the qualification of the Series A Notes for offer and sale by you and by dealers under the state securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as you may reasonably request (provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to qualify as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so subject or subject itself to taxation in excess of a nominal amount in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject). Subject to the provisions in the first sentence of this Section 6(d), the Company shall continue such qualification in effect so long as required by law for distribution of the Series A Notes. (e) Prior to the Closing Date, to furnish to you, as soon as they have been prepared, any internal combined financial statements of the Company that have been prepared by the Company for any period subsequent to the period covered by the financial statements appearing in the Offering Memorandum. (f) To use all commercially reasonable efforts to do and perform all things required to be done and performed under this Agreement by it prior to or after the Closing Date and to satisfy all conditions precedent on its part to the delivery of the Series A Notes. (g) Not to sell, offer for sale or solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of any security (as defined in the Securities Act) that would be integrated with the sale of the Series A Notes in a manner that would require the registration under the Securities Act of the sale to you or the Eligible Purchasers of the Series A Notes. (h) For a period of 90 days from the date of the Offering Memorandum, not to, directly or indirectly, sell, contract to sell, grant any option to purchase, issue any instrument convertible into or exchangeable for, or otherwise transfer or dispose of, any debt securities of the Company in a public or private offering for cash having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue of such securities, except (i) for the Series B Notes in connection with the Exchange Offer or (ii) with the prior consent of each of the Initial Purchasers, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. (i) During any period that the Company is not subject to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, for the period that is two years after the Closing Date or for so long as necessary to comply with Rule l44A in connection with resales by registered holders or beneficial owners of the Notes, whichever is longer, to make available to such registered holder or beneficial owner of the Notes in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of the Notes from such registered holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d) (4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto). (j) To comply with its agreements in the Registration Rights Agreements, and all agreements set forth in the representation letters of the Company to DTC relating to the approval of the Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer. (k) To use all commercially reasonable efforts to permit the Series A Notes to be designated Private Offerings, Resales and Trading through Automated Linkages ("PORTAL") Market securities in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. relating to trading in the PORTAL Market and to permit the Series A Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through DTC. (l) To apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Series A Notes being sold by the Company as set forth in the Offering Memorandum under the caption "Use of Proceeds". (m) During the period that is two years after the Closing Date, to take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure that the Company does not become an "investment company" within the meaning of such term under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder. (n) To not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Notes to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes. Except as permitted by the Securities Act, the Company and its subsidiaries will not distribute any offering material in connection with the Exempt Resales. 7. Expenses. The Company and the Guarantors agree, whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement becomes effective or is terminated, to pay all costs, expenses, fees and taxes incident to and in connection with: (i) the preparation, printing, filing and distribution of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (including, without limitation, financial statements and exhibits) and all amendments and supplements thereto, and furnishing sufficient copies of such documents as may be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers for use in connection with the Exempt Resales, (ii) the preparation, printing (including, without limitation, word processing and duplication costs) and delivery of this Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, all Blue Sky Memoranda and all other agreements, memoranda, correspondence and other documents printed and delivered in connection herewith and with the Exempt Resales (but not, however, legal fees and expenses of counsel to the Initial Purchasers incurred in connection with any of the foregoing other than reasonable fees of such counsel plus reasonable disbursements incurred in connection with the preparation, printing and delivery of such Blue Sky Memoranda), (iii) the issuance and delivery by the Company of the Series A Notes and by the Guarantors of the Guarantees and any taxes payable in connection with the issuance and delivery thereof by the Company and the Guarantors, (iv) the qualification of the Series A Notes and Series B Notes for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of the several states (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Initial Purchasers relating to such registration or qualification), (v) the preparation of certificates for the Series A Notes including, without limitation, printing and engraving, (vi) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and accountants, (vii) all expenses and listing fees in connection with the application for quotation of the Notes in PORTAL, (viii) all fees and expenses (including fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer, (ix) the Trustee, any agent of the Trustee and the counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture, the Series A Notes, the Guarantees, the Series B Notes, and the Series B Guarantees and (x) the performance by the Company of its other obligations under this Agreement to the extent not provided for above. It is understood, however, that except as provided in this Section 7 and Sections 10 and 12, the Initial Purchasers will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees of their counsel, transfer taxes on the resale of any of the Series A Notes by them, and any advertising expenses, if any, incurred by them in connection with the Offering. 8. Conditions of the Initial Purchasers' Obligations. The obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder are subject to the accuracy, when made and again on the Closing Date as if made again on and as of such date, of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained herein, to the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional terms and conditions: (a) The Offering Memorandum shall have been printed and copies made available to you not later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the business day following the date of this Agreement, or at such later date and time as you may approve in writing. (b) No Initial Purchaser shall have discovered and disclosed to the Company on or prior to the Closing Date that the Offering Memorandum or any amendment or supplement thereto contains an untrue statement of a fact which, in the opinion of Latham & Watkins, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, is material or omits to state a fact which, in the opinion of such counsel, is material and necessary to make the statements contained in the Offering Memorandum, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. (c) All corporate proceedings and other legal matters incident to the authorization, form and validity of this Agreement, the Series A Notes, the Guarantees, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indenture and the Offering Memorandum, and all other legal matters relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, shall be reasonably satisfactory in all material respects to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they reasonably request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. (d) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Illinois), special counsel to the Company, and Donald C. Lewis, General Counsel of the Company, each shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers their written opinions addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the Closing Date, in the form provided separately to the Initial Purchasers on the date hereof, with such changes, if any, as may be mutually agreed by the parties. (e) The Initial Purchasers shall have received from Latham & Watkins such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Series A Notes, the Offering Memorandum and other related matters as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably require. (f) The Company shall have entered into the Credit Facilities and other Credit Documents and the Initial Purchasers shall have received counterparts, conformed as executed, thereof, and the Company shall have borrowed such amounts thereunder as contemplated in the Offering Memorandum; provided, that if the proceeds from the issuance of the Series A Notes are to be placed into a secured proceeds account at the Closing Date, then such Credit Facility and other Credit Documents may be entered into on or prior to the closing of the Acquisition. (g) The Company and the Trustee shall have entered into the Indenture and the Initial Purchasers shall have received counterparts, conformed as executed, thereof. (h) The Company and the Initial Purchasers shall have entered into the Registration Rights Agreement and the Initial Purchasers shall have received counterparts, conformed as executed, thereof. (i) The Initial Purchasers shall have received from each of PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP and PwC Deutsche Revision Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft, independent certified public accountants, letters addressed to the Company or Schmalbach-Lubeca, as applicable, and Lehman Brothers Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Bank One Capital Markets, Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc., McDonald Investments Inc., SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC, substantially in the form heretofore approved by Lehman Brothers Inc., and dated the date hereof and the Closing Date, (i) confirming that they are independent accountants as required by the Securities Act and its Rules and Regulations or under the rules of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, as applicable, (ii) stating, as of the date of each letter (or, with respect to matters involving changes or developments since the respective dates as of which specified financial information is given in the Offering Memorandum, as of a date not more than five Business Days prior to the date of each letter), the procedures and findings of such firm with respect to the financial information and other matters covered by the letter delivered concurrently with this Agreement and (iii) with respect to the letter delivered on the Closing Date, confirming the procedures and findings set forth in the letter delivered concurrently with this Agreement; such letters shall be reasonably satisfactory to Lehman Brothers Inc. (j) The Company shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, of a Vice President and its Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer stating that (i) the representations, warranties and agreements of the Company (after giving effect to all materiality qualifiers therein) and the Guarantors in Section 2 are true and correct as of such Closing Date and giving effect to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement, the Credit Documents and this Agreement; (ii) the Company and each Guarantor has complied in all material respects with all its agreements contained herein; and (iii) the conditions set forth in Sections 8(k) and 8(l) have been fulfilled. (k) None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall have sustained, since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in the Offering Memorandum, (i) any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Offering Memorandum or (ii) since such date, there shall not have been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company, any Material Adverse Effect otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Offering Memorandum, the effect of which, in any such case described in clause (i) or (ii), is, in the reasonable, good faith judgment of the Initial Purchasers, so material and adverse as to make it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the payment for and delivery of the Series A Notes being delivered on such Closing Date on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Offering Memorandum. (l) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act, and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of any of the Company's debt securities. (m) The Series A Notes shall have been designated for trading on the PORTAL Market; provided that the failure of the Series A Notes to be so listed shall not be due to any action taken or failure to act by the Initial Purchasers. (n) If the proceeds from the issuance of the Series A Notes are to be placed into a secured proceeds account at the Closing Date, the Company shall have entered into a pledge, security and control agreement in a form reasonably satisfactory to Lehman Brothers. If such agreement is entered into, then on the Closing Date, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Illinois), special counsel to the Company, shall have furnished to the Initial Purchasers its written opinion addressed to the Initial Purchasers as to the validity and perfection of the security interest created pursuant to such agreement and such other matters as the parties may mutually agree, such opinion to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers. (o) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement there shall not have occurred any of the following: (i) trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange or in the over-the-counter market, or trading in any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market, shall have been suspended or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or such market by the Commission, by such exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental authority having jurisdiction; (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by federal or state authorities; (iii) the United States shall have become directly engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States or there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States; or (iv) there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general economic, political or financial conditions (or the effect of international conditions on the financial markets in the United States shall be such), in each case, as to make it, in the judgment of the Initial Purchasers, impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with offering or delivery of the Series A Notes being delivered on the Closing Date on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Offering Memorandum. (p) At the Closing Date, the Company's existing credit facilities dated August 10, 1998 (the "Existing Credit Facilities") shall be repaid in full, or, if not, then either (1) the Company shall have secured an amendment, consent or waiver under the Existing Credit Facilities such that the issuance of the Series A Notes and the transactions contemplated hereby will not cause a breach of, or default under, the Existing Credit Facilities or (2) the Initial Purchasers shall have received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Illinois) stating that the issuance of the Series A Notes and the transactions contemplated hereby will not cause a breach of, or default under, the Existing Credit Facilities, such opinion to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers. At the Closing Date, the Company shall provide to the Initial Purchasers evidence reasonably satisfactory to them of the repayment of or amendment, consent or waiver under the Existing Credit Facilities. All opinions, letters, evidence and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers. 9. Conditions of the Company's and the Guarantors' Obligations. Other than with respect to Section 7, 10 and 12 hereof, the obligations of the Company and the Guarantors hereunder are subject to the condition that the Acquisition shall have been consummated on substantially the terms provided for in the Acquisition Agreement as entered into on August 29, 2002. The closing of the offering is conditioned upon such consummation unless, at the Company's option, the proceeds of the offering are placed in a secured proceeds account pending consummation of the Acquisition. If the special mandatory redemption of the Series A Notes occurs in accordance with the Indenture, this Agreement may be terminated by the Company and the Guarantors; provided that the provisions of Sections 7, 10 and 12 hereof shall survive such termination. 10. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company and each Guarantor, jointly and severally, shall indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its directors, officers and employees and each person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of the Securities Act, from and against any loss, claim, damage or liability, joint or several, or any action in respect thereof (including, but not limited to, any loss, claim, damage, liability or action relating to purchases and sales of Notes), to which that Initial Purchaser, director, officer, employee or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or action arises out of, or is based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained (A) in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto or (B) in any blue sky application or other document prepared or executed by the Company or any Guarantor (or based upon any written information furnished by the Company or any Guarantor) specifically for the purpose of qualifying any or all of the Notes under the securities laws of any state or other jurisdiction (any such application, document or information being hereinafter called a "Blue Sky Application") or (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any Blue Sky Application any material fact or necessary to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, and shall reimburse each Initial Purchaser and each such director, officer, employee or controlling person promptly upon demand for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by that Initial Purchaser, director, officer, employee or controlling person in connection with investigating or defending or preparing to defend against any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company and the Guarantors shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action arises out of, or is based upon, any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto, the Registration Statement or the Offering Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any Blue Sky Application, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information concerning such Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company through the Initial Purchasers by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser specifically for inclusion therein; provided further, that the Company and each of the Guarantors shall not be liable to any Initial Purchaser under the indemnity agreement in this Section 10(a) to the extent, but only to the extent, that (x) such loss, claim, damage, or liability of such Initial Purchaser results from an untrue statement of a material fact or an omission of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, which untrue statement or omission was completely corrected in the Offering Memorandum and (y) the Company and each of the Guarantors had previously furnished sufficient quantities of the Offering Memorandum to the Initial Purchasers within a reasonable amount of time prior to such sale, and (z) such Initial Purchaser failed to deliver the Offering Memorandum. The foregoing indemnity agreement is in addition to any liability which the Company or the Guarantors may otherwise have to any Initial Purchaser or to any director, officer, employee or controlling person of that Initial Purchaser. (b) Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, shall indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Guarantor, and each of their respective directors, officers and employees, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any Guarantor within the meaning of the Securities Act, from and against any loss, claim, damage or liability, joint or several, or any action in respect thereof, to which the Company or any such director, officer, employee or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or action arises out of, or is based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained (A) in any Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or (B) in any Blue Sky Application or (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state in any Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or in any Blue Sky Application, any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, but in each case only to the extent that the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information concerning such Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company by or on behalf of that Initial Purchaser specifically for inclusion therein, and shall reimburse the Company, any Guarantor and any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company, any Guarantor or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating or defending or preparing to defend against any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action as such expenses are incurred. The foregoing indemnity agreement is in addition to any liability which any Initial Purchaser may otherwise have to the Company, any Guarantor or any such director, officer, employee or controlling person. (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 10 of notice of any claim or the commencement of any action, the indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 10, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the claim or the commencement of that action; provided, however, that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have under this Section 10 except to the extent it has been materially prejudiced by such failure and, provided further, that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under this Section 10. If any such claim or action shall be brought against an indemnified party, and it shall notify the indemnifying party thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it wishes, jointly with any other similarly notified indemnifying party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. After notice from the indemnifying party to the indemnified party of its election to assume the defense of such claim or action, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to the indemnified party under this Section 10 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. The Initial Purchasers shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Initial Purchaser unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been specifically authorized in writing by the Company, (ii) the Company shall have failed to assume the defense and employ counsel, (iii) counsel which has been provided by the Company reasonably determines that its representation of such Initial Purchaser would present it with a conflict of interest or (iv) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such Initial Purchaser and the Company, and such Initial Purchaser shall have been advised by such counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the Company (in which case the Company shall not have the right to assume the defense of such action on behalf of such Initial Purchaser, it being understood, however, that the Company shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all such Initial Purchasers, which firm shall be designated in writing by Lehman Brothers Inc. and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). No indemnifying party shall (i) without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) be liable for any settlement of any such action effected without its written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), but if settled with the consent of the indemnifying party or if there be a final judgment of the plaintiff in any such action, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless any indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. (d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 10 shall for any reason be unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under Section 10(a) or 10(b) in respect of any loss, claim, damage or liability, or any action in respect thereof, referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability, or action in respect thereof, (i) in such proportion as shall be appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Series A Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other, with respect to the statements or omissions which resulted in such loss, claim, damage or liability, or action in respect thereof, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other, with respect to such offering shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Series A Notes purchased under this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the total discounts and commissions received by the Initial Purchasers with respect to the Series A Notes purchased under this Agreement, on the other hand, bear to the total gross proceeds from the offering of the Series A Notes under this Agreement, in each case as set forth on the cover page of the Offering Memorandum. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Guarantors or the Initial Purchasers, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contributions pursuant to this Section were to be determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to herein. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the loss, claim, damage or liability, or action in respect thereof, referred to above in this Section 10 shall be deemed to include, for purposes of this Section 10(d), any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 10(d), no Initial Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Series A Notes purchased by it and resold to Eligible Purchasers exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser has otherwise paid or become liable to pay by reason of any untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Initial Purchasers' obligations to contribute as provided in this Section 10(d) are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. (e) The Initial Purchasers severally confirm and the Company and Guarantors acknowledge that the statements with respect to the offering of the Series A Notes by the Initial Purchasers set forth in the last paragraph on the cover page, the stabilization legend on pages ii and iii, and the information contained in the fifth, sixth, eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth paragraphs of the section entitled "Plan of Distribution" in the Offering Memorandum are correct and constitute the only information concerning such Initial Purchasers furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers specifically for inclusion in the Offering Memorandum. 11. Termination. (a) The obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be terminated by the Initial Purchasers by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Series A Notes if, prior to that time, any of the events described in Section 8(k), (l) or (o) shall have occurred or if the Initial Purchasers shall decline to purchase the Series A Notes for any reason permitted under this Agreement. (b) The obligations of the Company and the Guarantors hereunder may be terminated by the Company and the Guarantors if the Acquisition shall not have been consummated prior to or concurrently with the Closing of the Offering unless, at the Company's option, the proceeds of the offering are placed in a secured proceeds account at Closing; provided that the provisions of Sections 7, 10 and 12 hereof shall survive such termination. The Company and Guarantors may terminate their obligations under this Agreement if the Acquisition shall not have been consummated on substantially the terms provided for in the Acquisition Agreement on or prior to 30 days after the Closing of the offering or the Acquisition Agreement is terminated prior to 30 days after the Closing of the offering; provided that the provisions of Sections 7, 10 and 12 hereof shall survive such termination. 12. Reimbursement of Initial Purchasers' Expenses. If the Company and the Guarantors shall fail to tender the Series A Notes and Guarantees for delivery to the Initial Purchasers by reason of any failure, refusal or inability on the part of the Company or any Guarantor to perform any agreement on its part to be performed, or because any other condition of the Initial Purchasers' obligations hereunder required to be fulfilled by the Company or any Guarantor is not fulfilled, the Company and the Guarantors will reimburse the Initial Purchasers for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of its counsel) (accompanied by documentation) incurred by the Initial Purchasers in connection with this Agreement and the proposed purchase of the Series A Notes, and upon demand the Company and the Guarantors shall pay the full amount thereof to the Initial Purchasers. 13. Notices, Etc. All statements, requests, notices and agreements hereunder shall be in writing, and: (a) if to the Initial Purchasers, shall be delivered or sent by mail or facsimile transmission to Lehman Brothers Inc., 745 7th Avenue, New York, New York 10019, Attention: Stephen Mehos (Fax: (646) 758-4477), with a copy, in the case of any notice pursuant to Section 9(c), to the Director of Litigation, Office of the General Counsel, Lehman Brothers Inc., 399 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10022; (b) if to the Company or the Guarantors, shall be delivered or sent by mail or facsimile transmission to Ball Corporation, 10 Longs Peak Drive, Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510, Attention: Charles Baker (Fax: (303) 460-2691), with a copy to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, Illinois 60606, Attention: Brian Duwe (Fax: (312) 407-0411); provided, however, that any notice to an Initial Purchaser pursuant to Section 9(c) shall be delivered or sent by mail or facsimile transmission to such Initial Purchaser at its address set forth in its acceptance telex to Lehman Brothers Inc., which address will be supplied to any other party hereto by Lehman Brothers Inc. upon request. Any such statements, requests, notices or agreements shall take effect at the time of receipt thereof. The Company shall be entitled to act and rely upon any request, consent, notice or agreement given or made on behalf of the Initial Purchasers by Lehman Brothers Inc. as if the request, consent, notice or agreement was given by all of the Initial Purchasers. 14. Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Initial Purchasers, the Company, the Guarantors and their respective successors. This Agreement and the terms and provisions hereof are for the sole benefit of only those persons, except that (i) the representations, warranties, indemnities and agreements of the Company and the Guarantors contained in this Agreement shall also be deemed to be for the benefit of the persons, if any, who control any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and (ii) the representations, warranties, indemnities and agreements of the Initial Purchasers contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to be for the benefit of directors, officers and employees of each of the Company and the Guarantors and any person controlling the Company and the Guarantors within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, other than the persons referred to in this Section 14, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. 15. Survival. The respective indemnities, representations, warranties and agreements of the Initial Purchasers, the Company and the Guarantors contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf on them, respectively, pursuant to this Agreement, shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Series A Notes and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any of them or any person controlling any of them. 16. Definition of the Terms "Business Day" and "Subsidiary". For purposes of this Agreement, (a) "business day" means any day on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is open for trading and (b) "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the Rules and Regulations. 17. Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. 18. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and, if executed in more than one counterpart, the executed counterparts shall each be deemed to be an original but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. 19. Headings. The headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement. If the foregoing correctly sets forth the agreement among the Company, the Guarantors, and the Initial Purchasers, please indicate your acceptance in the space provided for that purpose below. Very truly yours, BALL CORPORATION. By /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL AEROSPACE AND TECHNOLOGIES CORP. By /s/ David Taylor ----------------------------------- Name: David L. Taylor Title: President and Chief Executive Officer BALL METAL BEVERAGE CONTAINER CORP. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer ---------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Assistant Secretary BALL METAL FOOD CONTAINER CORP. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer ---------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Secretary BALL METAL PACKAGING SALES CORP. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer --------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Assistant Secretary BALL PACKAGING CORP. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer ---------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Assistant Secretary BALL PLASTIC CONTAINER CORP. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer --------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Assistant Secretary BALL TECHNOLOGIES HOLDINGS CORP. By /s/ W. Keith Tipton -------------------------------- Name: W. Keith Tipton Title: Assistant Secretary LATAS DE ALUMINIO BALL, INC. By /s/ W. Keith Tipton -------------------------------- Name: W. Keith Tipton Title: Assistant Secretary BALL PAN-EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, INC. By /s/ Charles E. Baker -------------------------------- Name: Charles E. Baker Title: Assistant Secretary BG HOLDINGS I, INC. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer --------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Assistant Secretary BG HOLDINGS II, INC. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer --------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Assistant Secretary EFRATOM HOLDING INC. By /s/ Elizabeth A. Overmyer --------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth A. Overmyer Title: Assistant Secretary This Purchase Agreement is accepted as of the date first written above. Accepted: LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC BANC ONE CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. BNP PARIBAS SECURITIES CORP. DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN-GRANTCHESTER, INC. MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC. SUNTRUST CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. WELLS FARGO BROKERAGE SERVICES, LLC By LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. By /s/ Stephen Mehos --------------------------- Name: Stephen Mehos Title: Senior Vice President
SCHEDULE I Principal Amount of Notes to be Initial Purchasers Purchased Lehman Brothers Inc.......................................... $120,000,000 Deutsche Bank Securities Inc................................. 84,000,000 Banc of America Securities LLC............................... 30,000,000 Bank One Capital Markets, Inc................................ 15,000,000 BNP Paribas Securities Corp. 15,000,000 Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc. 9,000,000 McDonald Investments Inc. 9,000,000 SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. 9,000,000 Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC 9,000,000 ----------------- Total................................................... $300,000,000 =================
Exhibit A Guarantors 1. Ball Aerospace and Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation 2. Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 3. Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation 4. Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation 5. Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation 6. Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 7. Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation 8. Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation 9. Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation 10. BG Holdings I, a Delaware corporation 11. BG Holdings II, a Delaware corporation 12. Efratom Holding Inc., a Colorado corporation

Exhibit 2.2 Amendment Agreement AMENDMENT AGREEMENT to the SHARE SALE AND TRANSFER AGREEMENT between Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH AV Packaging GmbH Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. Ball Corporation and Ball (Germany) Acquisition GmbH dated December 18, 2002
UR. Nr. H 3819 / 2002 NOTARIAL DEED negotiated at Dusseldorf this 18 (eighteenth) of December 2002 (two thousand and two). Before me, the undersigned Notary Public Dr. Armin Hauschild at Dusseldorf today appeared: 1. Dr. Harald Selzner, born June 5, 1964, attorney-at-law, German citizen, with business address at Breite Stra(beta)e 69, 40213 Dusseldorf and with private domicile at An den Buchen 5, 40629 Dusseldorf, known by person, here not acting in his own name but as representative in the name and on behalf of Schmalbach-Lubeca Holding GmbH, a German limited liability company with business address at Breite Stra(beta)e 69, 40213 Dusseldorf, Germany, - hereinafter referred to as "Seller" - by virtue of certified power of attorney dated August 21/23, 2002 the original of which was presented to the Notary Public and a certified copy of which is attached to this Notarial Deed; 2. Dr. Marco Sustmann, born June 23, 1970, attorney-at-law, German citizen, with business address at Breite Stra(beta)e 69, 40213 Dusseldorf and with private domicile at Fasanenstra(beta)e 12, 41751 Viersen, known by person, here not acting in his own name but as representative in the name and on behalf of AV Packaging GmbH, a German limited liability company with business address at Theresienstra(beta)e 1-7, 80333 Munchen, Germany, - hereinafter referred to as "Seller's Guarantor" - by virtue of certified power of attorney dated August 21/23, 2002 the original of which was presented to the Notary Public and a certified copy of which is attached to this Notarial Deed; 3. Dr. Ingo Scholz, born May 9, 1970, attorney-at-law, German citizen, with business address at Frankfurter Welle 5/Reuterweg 18, 60322 Frankfurt, and with private domicile at Eichendorfstr. 63 A, 60320 Frankfurt, identified by his identity card no. 4012431898, here not acting in his own name but as representative in the name and on behalf of (a) Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware incorporated company with business address at 14270 Ramona Avenue, Chino, CA 91710, United States, - hereinafter referred to as "Purchaser" - by virtue of certified power of attorney dated August 26, 2002 and December 13, 2002 the original of which was presented to the Notary Public and a certified copy of which is attached to this Notarial Deed; (b) Ball Corporation, an Indiana incorporated company with business address at 10 Longs Peak Drive, Broomfield, CO 80021, United States, - hereinafter referred to as "Purchaser's Guarantor" - by virtue of certified power of attorney dated August 26, 2002 and December 13, 2002 the original of which was presented to the Notary Public and a certified copy of which is attached to this Notarial Deed; 4. Mr. John Arthur Hayes, born December 2, 1965, American citizen, with business address at Pempelforter Stra(beta)e 50, 40211 Dusseldorf and with private address 6213 Reserve Drive in Bolder, CO 80303, United States, identified by American passport no. 110761539 here not acting in his own name but as representative in the name and on behalf of (c) Ball (Germany) Acquisition GmbH, a German limited liability company with business address at Pempelforter Stra(beta)e 50, 40211 Dusseldorf, Germany, - hereinafter referred to as "Purchaser's Nominee" - as managing director with authority to represent the company solely. The Notary Public informed the persons appeared of the contents of Section 3 (1) No. 7 of the German Notarization Act (Beurkundungsgesetz). The persons appeared confirmed that the Notary Public and his firm have not been involved in the transaction at hand within the meaning of the provision referred to above. The persons appeared requested this Notarial Deed including its Annexes to be notarized in the English language. The Notary Public who is in sufficient command of the English language ascertained that also the persons appeared are in sufficient command of the English language. The persons appeared, acting as stated above, requested the notarization of the following: PREAMBLE 1. WHEREAS the Seller, the Seller's Guarantor, the Purchaser and the Purchaser's Guarantor on August 29/30, 2002, entered into a share sale and transfer agreement (UR. Nr. H 2545 / 2002 Notary Public Dr. Armin Hauschild at Dusseldorf) ("Agreement"). 2. WHEREAS the parties hereto intend to amend the Agreement and the notarial deed (UR. Nr. H 2544/2002 of the Notary Public Dr. Armin Hauschild at Dusseldorf) dated August 29/30, 2002 ("Notarial Deed") based on, and subject to, the terms and conditions of this agreement ("Amendment Agreement"). NOW, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES HERETO AGREE AS FOLLOWS: I. REPLACEMENT OF PURCHASER The parties hereto agree that the Purchaser's Nominee hereby joins the Agreement replacing the Purchaser by the assumption of any and all rights and obligations of the Purchaser under the Agreement and the Notarial Deed. It is acknowledged by the parties hereto, however, that nothing in this Part I shall affect or limit the liability of the Purchaser's Guarantor under the Agreement. II. SALE AND TRANSFER OF COMPANY SHARES 1. On the terms set forth in the Agreement, as amended by this Amendment Agreement, the Seller hereby sells and, subject to the satisfaction or, if applicable, waiver of all conditions set forth in Part IX Sections 1 and 2 of the Agreement, transfers to the Purchaser's Nominee, who accepts such sale and transfer, the Company Shares with all dividend and dividend drawing rights (Gewinn- und Gewinnbezugsrechte) relating to the profits not yet distributed on the Closing Date and all subscription and other rights pertaining to the Company Shares. 2. The parties to this Amendment Agreement hereby agree that the provision set forth in Part I Section 4 of the Agreement shall be modified, and replaced, as follows: "The parties hereby irrevocably instruct the Notary Public to notify the Company as to the sale and transfer of the Company Shares in accordance with Section 16 of the German Act on Limited Liability Companies (GmbH-Gesetz, GmbHG) subject, however, to the receipt of the parties' written confirmation by the Notary Public that all conditions set forth in Part IX Sections 1 and 2 below have been satisfied or waived. The parties hereto shall be obligated to issue such written confirmation to the Notary Public upon such satisfaction or waiver. The Notary Public shall notify the Company by submitting a copy of this Notarial Deed (excluding Parts II to VIII below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties may directly notify the Company as to the sale and transfer of the Company Shares in accordance with Section 16 of the German Act on Limited Liability Companies (GmbH-Gesetz, GmbHG)." III. PAYMENTS 1. Any payments to the Seller under the Agreement, including but not limited to the Estimated Purchase Price and the Purchase Price, shall be made by money transfer to the Seller's account number 23369400 with Deutsche Bank in London (Swift Code: DEUTGB3L). 2. Any payments to the Purchaser's Nominee, including but not limited to any adjustments to the Estimated Purchase Price and the Purchase Price, shall be made by money transfer to a bank account to be designated by the Purchaser's Nominee by written notice to the Seller. IV. CERTAIN COVENANTS 1. The parties to this Amendment Agreement hereby agree that the provisions set forth in Part II Section 4, last sentence, Part II Section 12, last sentence and Part II Section 16 of the Agreement shall be deleted. 2. The Purchaser's Nominee hereby undertakes to convene a shareholders' meeting of the Company on the Closing Date immediately after all conditions precedent set forth in Part IX Sections l and 2 of the Agreement have been satisfied or waived and to properly discharge all members of the supervisory board which have resigned from their positions pursuant to the provision in Part IX Section 2 lit. (c); provided, however, that such discharge shall not release any such members of the supervisory board, the Seller or the Seller's Guarantor from any actions taken by such members of the supervisory board prior to the consummation of the transfer of the Company Shares. 3. (a) The Seller and the Seller's Guarantor undertake to use all efforts which can be reasonably expected to procure that certain rights and obligations of Schmalbach or any other of the Matrix Sellers under the Matrix Agreement (including those under Section 5.18 and Article 9 of the Matrix Agreement), shall be assigned and transferred to an Affiliate of the Seller or to a third party nominated by the Seller (it being agreed and understood that Seller and Seller's Guarantor shall have no obligation to effect any agreement which Seller and Seller's Guarantor, using reasonable discretion, deem to be adverse to the interests of Seller and Seller's Guarantor). (b) The Purchaser's Nominee hereby undertakes to procure that, upon request of the Seller, certain rights and obligations of Schmalbach or any other of the Matrix Sellers under the Matrix Agreement (including those under Section 5.18 and Article 9 of the Matrix Agreement), shall be assigned and transferred to an Affiliate of the Seller or to a third party nominated by the Seller (it being agreed and understood that Purchaser's Nominee shall have no obligation to effect any agreement which Purchaser's Nominee, using reasonable discretion and after taking into account the indemnification obligation set forth in the following sentence, deems to be adverse to the interests of the Purchaser's Nominee and its Affiliates). All obligations and Liabilities of Schmalbach based on, or resulting from, such assignment and transfer shall be covered by the indemnification undertaking of the Seller pursuant to Part II Section 6 lit. (a) (i) of the Agreement. V. CONSIDERATION 1. The parties to this Amendment Agreement hereby agree that the provision set forth in Part III Section 1 of the Agreement shall be modified, and replaced, as follows: "The entire consideration for the sale and transfer of the Company Shares and for all other obligations assumed by the Seller under this Agreement shall be (euro) 1,175,000,000 (in words: Euro one billion one hundred seventy five million) less the consolidated Net Purchase Price Adjustments (as defined below) of the BevCan Companies ("Purchase Price") subject, however, to the adjustments set forth in Sections 3 to 6 below. On the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall pay the Seller (euro) 922,300,000 (in words: Euro nine hundred twenty two million three hundred thousand) ("Estimated Purchase Price"). For purposes of this Agreement, "Net Purchase Price Adjustments" means (x) the sum of (i) the Applicable Pension Liabilities (as defined below), (ii) the amount of Indebtedness set forth in the Final Closing Financial Statements, (iii) the ABS Liabilities set forth in the Final Closing Financial Statements and (iv) all payment obligations of the BevCan Companies under the OTIP not fully settled at or prior to the Closing Date, reduced by (y) the sum of cash and cash equivalents set forth in the Final Closing Financial Statements (except for an amount equal to USD 6,800,000 (in words: US Dollars six million eight hundred thousand). "Applicable Pension Liabilities" means an amount of (euro) 251,000,000 (in words: Euro two hundred fifty one million) as mutually agreed by the parties hereto, reduced by an amount of (euro) 5,200,000 (in words: Euro five million two hundred thousand) representing Pension Liabilities relating to former employees of Impress. For purposes of calculating the Net Purchase Price Adjustments, all payment claims of the BevCan Companies against the Seller or any of its Affiliates (other than the BevCan Companies, but including, without limitation, the Affiliates acquired from the BevCan Companies under Part II Section 6 of the Agreement) arising out of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business of the BevCan Companies consistent with past practices not fully settled at or prior to the Closing Date (as defined in the Agreement) shall be deemed to be "cash or cash equivalents" as of the Closing Date and all payment claims of the Seller and its Affiliates (other than the BevCan Companies, but including, without limitation, the Affiliates acquired from the BevCan Companies under Part II Section 6 of the Agreement) against the BevCan Companies arising out of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business of the BevCan Companies consistent with past practices not fully settled at or prior to the Closing Date shall be deemed to be "Indebtedness" as of the Closing Date. The parties are in agreement that such payment claims shall be settled in the ordinary course consistent with past practices, but in no event later than ten Business Days (as defined in the Agreement) after the submission of the Final Closing Financial Statements (it being agreed and understood by the parties that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment claims not settled at the latest ten Business Days after the submission of the Final Closing Financial Statements shall not be deemed "cash or cash equivalents" or "Indebtedness", as applicable, for the purposes of calculating the Net Purchase Price Adjustments, and any such payment claims shall be waived and cease to exist, except for those payment claims resulting from, or connected with, E.ON AG or Allianz AG or any of their respective Affiliates (other than the Seller or the Seller's Guarantor)). 2. The parties to this Amendment Agreement agree that both, the cash amount of (euro) 130,768,000 and any other amounts withheld by the Company in connection with the Company Distributions for withholding tax purposes (Kapitalertragsteuer, Solidaritatszuschlag), as well as the Company's undertaking to transfer such amounts to the competent tax authorities shall not be considered "cash and cash equivalents" or "Indebtedness" for purposes of, and shall have no effect on, the Net Purchase Price Adjustments under the Agreement. VI. DISCLOSURE UPDATE The parties to this Amendment Agreement hereby agree on, and acknowledge, the Disclosure Update (as defined in the Agreement) attached hereto as Annex 1. VII. DIRECT PURCHASES 1. The parties to this Amendment Agreement hereby agree that the undertakings to effect the Direct Purchases set forth in Section 1 and 2 of Annex 4 to the Agreement shall be limited to the execution of the share sale and transfer agreement relating to the disposal of 100% of the equity of Continental Can France S.A.S. ("CCF"), a draft of which is attached as Annex 2 hereto. 2. The execution of the Direct Purchases set forth in Section 1 above shall occur prior to, or on, the Closing Date and shall have no effect on the representations and warranties or any other rights, claims, liabilities and obligations of the parties under the Agreement and this Amendment Agreement. In furtherance of the foregoing, the parties hereto further agree that: (a) The terms "BevCan Subsidiaries" and "BevCan Companies" in the Agreement shall include all subsidiaries set forth on pages 1 to 3 of Annex 1 to the Agreement regardless of whether such subsidiaries have been transferred to any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Purchaser's Guarantor prior to the consummation of the sale and transfer of the Company Shares; and (b) following the consummation of the Direct Purchases set forth in Section 1 above, any and all provisions of the Agreement shall be applied as if no Direct Purchases were consummated prior to the consummation of the sale and transfer of the Company Shares. 3. The parties agree that, if the consummation of the transfer of the Company Shares does not occur prior to 11:30 p.m. (Central European Time) on Thursday, December 19, 2002 (the "Closing Deadline"), the Seller and the Purchaser's Guarantor shall provide a written notification to (i) Ball (France) Holdings, S.A.S., a corporation incorporated under the laws of the Republic of France and an indirect subsidiary of Purchaser's Guarantor and (ii) the Company, in each case by no later than 5 p.m. (Central European Time) on Friday, December 20, 2002 that the consummation of the sale and transfer of the Company Shares has not occurred. 4. The Seller and the Seller's Guarantor undertake to indemnify the Purchaser's Nominee, the Purchaser's Guarantor and each of their Affiliates from any and all Tax Liabilities resulting from a notification issued by the Seller that the consummation of the transfer of the Company Shares did not occur prior to the Closing Deadline, although the consummation of the transfer of the Company Shares did actually occur prior to the Closing Deadline, including, without limitation, any Tax Liabilities relating to income which the Purchaser's Guarantor or any of its Affiliates may have been able to deduct for any reason (including, without limitation, as a result of interest deductions arising from any intragroup indebtedness among any Affiliates of Purchaser's Guarantor) if the Purchaser's Guarantor or one of its Affiliates had acquired CCF from the Company prior to the consummation of the transfer of the Company Shares. The Purchaser's Nominee and the Purchaser's Guarantor shall indemnify and hold the Seller, the Seller's Guarantor and their Affiliates fully and in good time harmless from all obligations and Liabilities, accrued or contingent, based on or resulting from Purchaser's Guarantor's failure to issue a notification pursuant to Section 3 above, although the consummation of transfer of the Company Shares did not occur prior to the Closing Deadline. The Seller and the Seller's Guarantor shall indemnify and hold the Purchaser's Nominee, the Purchaser's Guarantor and their Affiliates fully and in good time harmless from all obligations and Liabilities, accrued or contingent, based on or resulting from Seller's failure to issue a notification pursuant to Section 3 above, although the consummation of transfer of the Company Shares did not occur prior to the Closing Deadline. VIII. CLOSING The parties to this Amendment Agreement hereby agree that the provision set forth in Part IX Section 1 of the Agreement shall be modified, and replaced, as follows: "The transfer of the Company Shares pursuant to Part I Section 1 above is subject to the satisfaction or, in case of lit. (c) and (f) below, waiver of the following conditions precedent (aufschiebende Bedingungen): (a) completion of all merger control proceedings in Germany and Poland without interdiction of any transaction contemplated by this Agreement, be it by lapse of time or written confirmation to that effect; (b) [intentionally omitted]; (c) completion of the Asset Transfer as set forth in Part II Section 6 lit. (i) above; (d) completion of the Squeeze-Out as set forth in Part II Section 9 above; (e) completion of the Conversion as set forth in Part II Section 10 above by registration of the conversion resolution with the competent commercial register; (f) completion of the Company Distributions as set forth in Part II Section 12 above and receipt of all distributed amounts by the Seller; (g) receipt of the Estimated Purchase Price by the Seller as set forth in Part III Section 7 lit. (a) above; and (h) if required under the Company's articles of association, the shareholders' meeting of the Company and the Company have consented to the sale and transfer of the Company Shares." IX. MISCELLANEOUS 1. The fees for the notarization of this Amendment Agreement shall be split in half between the Seller and the Purchaser's Nominee. Apart therefrom, each party hereto shall bear its own costs and taxes and the costs of its advisors. 2. The Agreement, as amended by this Amendment Agreement, is and shall continue to be in full force and effect and is hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed. Nothing in this Amendment Agreement shall waive or be deemed to waive or modify (except as set forth herein) any rights or obligations of any of the parties under the Agreement. 3. If a provision of this Amendment Agreement should be or become invalid or not contain a necessary regulation, the validity of the other provisions of this Amendment Agreement shall not be affected thereby. The invalid provision shall be replaced and the gap be filled by a legally valid arrangement which corresponds as closely as possible to the intention of the parties or what would have been the intention of the parties according to the aim and purpose of this Amendment Agreement if they had recognized the gap. 4. This Amendment Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany. Any dispute among the parties with respect to the terms of this Amendment Agreement will be settled in accordance with the arbitration clause provided in Part X Section 8 of the Agreement. In order to facilitate the comprehensive resolution of disputes between the parties under the Agreement and this Amendment Agreement, any claims between any of the parties to this Amendment Agreement and any claims between any of the parties to the Agreement may be brought in a single arbitration. 5. None of the parties hereto shall make, or cause to be made, except as maybe otherwise required by law, any disclosure or announcement in respect of this Amendment Agreement, its contents or any of the transactions contemplated thereby to any third party in the business community, without the prior written consent of the other party. 6. This Amendment Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, but this Amendment Agreement may not be assigned by any party without the written consent of the other parties; provided, however, that this is not intended to restrict the Direct Purchases. 7. The inclusion of any word or phrase in this Amendment Agreement in the German language shall not be deemed to place any limitations on the concept or item discussed therein. 8. Capitalized terms in this Amendment Agreement shall have the same meaning as defined in the Agreement if not expressly stated otherwise. This deed, these parts of its Annex 1 which are reflected in a marked-up version and additionally initialled "H" as well as Annex 2 were read to the individuals present by the notary. The remaining parts of the Annexes are attached for identification purposes only. Thereafter the individuals present approved this deed including its Annexes and signed this deed with me, the notary, as follows: /s/ Harald Selzner /s/ Marco Sustmann /s/ Ingo Scholz /s/ John A. Hayes /s/ Armin Hauschild, Notary

Exhibit 4.1 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT Dated as of December 19, 2002 by and among Ball Corporation Guarantors Parties Hereto and Lehman Brothers Inc. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Banc of America Securities LLC Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. BNP Paribas Securities Corp. Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc. McDonald Investments Inc. SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), each of the Guarantors listed on Exhibit A hereto (each a "Guarantor", and together, the "Guarantors") and Lehman Brothers Inc. ("Lehman Brothers"), Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities Inc., Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein-Grantchester, Inc., McDonald Investments Inc., SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC (together, the "Initial Purchasers"), each of whom has agreed to purchase the Company's 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Series A Notes") pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated December 5, 2002, (the "Purchase Agreement"), by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers. In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Series A Notes, the Company and the Guarantors have agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 4 of the Purchase Agreement. The parties hereby agree as follows: SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings: "Act": The Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Affiliate": As defined in Rule 144A. "Business Day": Any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day in the City of New York, or in the city of the corporate trust office of the Trustee, on which banks are authorized to close. "Broker-Dealer": Any broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act. "Broker-Dealer Transfer Restricted Securities": Series B Notes that are acquired by a Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Series A Notes that such Broker-Dealer acquired for its own account as a result of market making activities or other trading activities (other than Series A Notes acquired directly from the Company or any of its affiliates). "Closing Date": The date hereof. "Commission": The Securities and Exchange Commission. "Consummate": An Exchange Offer shall be deemed "Consummated" for purposes of this Agreement upon the occurrence of (a) the filing and effectiveness under the Act of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to the Series B Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer, (b) the maintenance of such Registration Statement continuously effective and the keeping of the Exchange Offer open for a period not less than the minimum period required pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof and (c) the delivery by the Company to the Registrar under the Indenture of Series B Notes in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of Series A Notes tendered by Holders thereof pursuant to the Exchange Offer. "Definitive Notes": As defined in the Indenture. "Exchange Act": The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Offer": The registration by the Company under the Act of the Series B Notes pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to which the Company shall offer the Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities the opportunity to exchange all such outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities for Series B Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders. "Exchange Offer Registration Statement": The Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer, including the related Prospectus. "Exempt Resales": The transactions in which the Initial Purchasers propose to sell the Series A Notes to certain "qualified institutional buyers," as such term is defined in Rule 144A under the Act, and pursuant to Regulation S. "Global Note": As defined in the Indenture. "Holders": As defined in Section 2 hereof. "Indemnified Holder": As defined in Section 8(a) hereof. "Indenture": The Indenture, dated the Closing Date, among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"), pursuant to which the Notes are to be issued, as such Indenture is amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof. "Interest Payment Date": As defined in the Indenture and the Notes. "NASD": National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "Notes": The Series A Notes and the Series B Notes. "Person": An individual, partnership, corporation, trust, unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof. "Prospectus": The prospectus prepared pursuant to this Agreement and included in a Registration Statement at the time such Registration Statement is declared effective, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus. "Record Holder": With respect to any Interest Payment Date, each Person who is a Holder of Notes on the record date with respect to the Interest Payment Date on which such Interest Payment Date shall occur. "Registration Default": As defined in Section 5 hereof. "Registration Statement": Any registration statement of the Company and the Guarantors relating to (a) an offering of Series B Notes pursuant to an Exchange Offer or (b) the registration for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, in each case, (i) which is filed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and (ii) including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein. "Regulation S": Regulation S promulgated under the Act. "Restricted Broker-Dealer": Any Broker-Dealer which holds Broker-Dealer Transfer Restricted Securities. "Series B Notes": The Company's 6 7/8% Series B Notes due 2012 to be issued pursuant to the Indenture (i) in the Exchange Offer or (ii) upon the request of any Holder of Series A Notes covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, in exchange for such Series A Notes. "Shelf Registration Statement": As defined in Section 4 hereof. "TIA": The Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Section 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture. "Transfer Restricted Securities": Each Note, until the earliest to occur of (a) the date on which such Note is exchanged in the Exchange Offer by a Person other than a Broker-Dealer and entitled to be resold to the public by the Holder thereof without complying with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Act, (b) the date on which such Note has been disposed of in accordance with a Shelf Registration Statement, (c) the date on which such Note is disposed of by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the "Plan of Distribution" contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (including delivery of the Prospectus contained therein), (d) the date on which such Note is distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Act, or (e) the Note ceases to be outstanding. "Underwritten Registration" or "Underwritten Offering": A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public. SECTION 2. HOLDERS A Person is deemed to be a holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (each, a "Holder") whenever such Person owns Transfer Restricted Securities. SECTION 3. REGISTERED EXCHANGE OFFER (a) Unless the Exchange Offer shall not be permitted by applicable federal law (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a)(i) below have been complied with), the Company and the Guarantors shall (i) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be filed with the Commission no later than 90 days after the Closing Date, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, (ii) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective no later than 180 days after the Closing Date, (iii) in connection with the foregoing, use all commercially reasonable efforts to (A) file all pre-effective amendments to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement as may be reasonably necessary in order to cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective, (B) file, if applicable, a post-effective amendment to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430A under the Act and (C) cause all filings which to the knowledge of the Company and the Guarantors are reasonably necessary, if any, in connection with the registration and qualification of the Series B Notes to be made under the Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as are necessary to permit Consummation of the Exchange Offer, and (iv) upon the effectiveness of such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, use all commercially reasonable efforts to commence and Consummate the Exchange Offer within 30 Business Days of such effectiveness. The Exchange Offer shall be on the appropriate form permitting registration of the Series B Notes to be offered in exchange for the Series A Notes that are Transfer Restricted Securities and to permit sales of Broker-Dealer Transfer Restricted Securities by Restricted Broker-Dealers as contemplated by Section 3(c) below. (b) The Company and the Guarantors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be effective continuously, and shall keep the Exchange Offer open for a period of not less than the minimum period required under applicable federal and state securities laws to Consummate the Exchange Offer; provided, however, that in no event shall such period be less than 20 Business Days. The Company and the Guarantors shall cause the Exchange Offer to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the Notes shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. The Company and the Guarantors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer to be Consummated on or prior to 30 Business Days after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has become effective. (c) The Company shall include a "Plan of Distribution" section in the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and indicate therein that any Restricted Broker-Dealer who holds Series A Notes that are Transfer Restricted Securities and that were acquired for the account of such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, may exchange such Series A Notes (other than Transfer Restricted Securities acquired directly from the Company or any affiliate of the Company) pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, such Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and must, therefore, deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Act in connection with its initial sale of each Series B Note received by such Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, which prospectus delivery requirement may be satisfied by the delivery by such Broker-Dealer of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also contain all other information with respect to such sales of Broker-Dealer Transfer Restricted Securities by Restricted Broker-Dealers that the Commission may require in order to permit such sales pursuant thereto, but such "Plan of Distribution" shall not name any such Broker-Dealer or disclose the amount of Notes held by any such Broker-Dealer, except to the extent required by the Commission as a result of a change in policy after the date of this Agreement. The Company and the Guarantors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Sections 6(a) and 6(c) below to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for sales of Broker-Dealer Transfer Restricted Securities by Restricted Broker-Dealers, and to ensure that such Registration Statement conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of 180 days from the date on which the Exchange Offer is Consummated. The Company and the Guarantors shall promptly provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such Prospectus to such Restricted Broker-Dealers promptly upon request, at any time during such 180-day period in order to facilitate such sales. SECTION 4. SHELF REGISTRATION (a) Shelf Registration. If (i) the Company is not required to file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to the Series B Notes or (ii) the Company is not permitted to consummate the Exchange Offer because the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a)(i) below have been complied with) or (iii) if any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall notify the Company within 20 Days following the Consummation of the Exchange Offer that (A) such Holder was prohibited by law or Commission policy from participating in the Exchange Offer or (B) such Holder may not resell the Series B Notes acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales by such Holder or (C) such Holder is a Broker-Dealer and holds Series A Notes acquired directly from the Company or one of its affiliates, then the Company and the Guarantors shall (x) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be filed on or prior to 60 days after the date on which the Company determines that it is not required to file the Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to clause (i) above or 60 days after the date on which the Company receives the notice specified in clause (ii) above a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Act (which may be an amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (in either event, the "Shelf Registration Statement")), relating to all Transfer Restricted Securities the Holders of which shall have provided the information required pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof, and shall (y) use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to become effective on or prior to 90 days after the date on which the Company becomes obligated to file such Shelf Registration Statement. If, after the Company and the Guarantors have filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement which satisfies the requirements of Section 3(a) above, the Company and the Guarantors are required to file and make effective a Shelf Registration Statement solely because the Exchange Offer shall not be permitted under applicable federal law, then the filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of clause (x) above. Such an event shall have no effect on the requirements of clause (y) above. The Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement discussed in this Section 4(a) continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by and subject to the provisions of Sections 6(b) and (c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for sales of Transfer Restricted Securities by the Holders thereof entitled to the benefit of this Section 4(a), and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of at least two years (as extended pursuant to Section 6(c)(i)) following the date on which such Shelf Registration Statement first becomes effective under the Act. (b) Provision by Holders of Certain Information in Connection with the Shelf Registration Statement. No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may include any of its Transfer Restricted Securities in any Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing, within 10 Business Days after receipt of a request therefor, such information specified in Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K under the Act for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein. Each Holder as to which any Shelf Registration Statement is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not materially misleading. SECTION 5. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES If (i) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the date specified for such filing in this Agreement, (ii) any such Registration Statement has not been declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the date specified for such effectiveness in this Agreement (the "Effectiveness Target Date"), (iii) the Exchange Offer has not been Consummated within 30 Business Days after the Effectiveness Target Date or (iv) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective or fail to be usable in connection with resales of Transfer Restricted Securities during the period specified in this Agreement without being succeeded immediately by a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement that cures such failure and that is itself declared effective immediately (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iv), a "Registration Default"), then the Company and the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally agree to pay liquidated damages to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities with respect to the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of such Registration Default, in an amount equal to $.05 per week per $1,000 principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holder for each week or portion thereof that the Registration Default continues. The amount of the liquidated damages shall increase by an additional $.05 per week per $1,000 in principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all Registration Defaults have been cured, up to a maximum amount of liquidated damages for all Registration Defaults of $.50 per week per $1,000 principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, (1) upon filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement), in the case of (i) above, (2) upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement), in the case of (ii) above, (3) upon Consummation of the Exchange Offer, in the case of (iii) above, or (4) upon the filing of a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or an additional Registration Statement that causes the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement) to again be declared effective or made usable in the case of (iv) above, the liquidated damages payable with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities as a result of such clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), as applicable, shall immediately cease. All accrued liquidated damages shall be paid to holders of Global Notes by wire transfer of immediately available funds or by federal funds check and to Holders of Definitive Notes by wire transfer to the accounts specified by them or by mailing checks to their registered addresses, if no such accounts have been specified, on each Interest Payment Date. All obligations of the Company and the Guarantors set forth in the preceding paragraph that are outstanding with respect to any Transfer Restricted Security at the time such security ceases to be a Transfer Restricted Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such security shall have been satisfied in full. SECTION 6. REGISTRATION PROCEDURES (a) Exchange Offer Registration Statement. In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable provisions of Section 6(c) below, shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to effect such exchange and to permit the sale of Broker-Dealer Transfer Restricted Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and shall comply with all of the following provisions: (i) If, following the date hereof there has been published a change in Commission policy with respect to exchange offers such as the Exchange Offer, such that in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the Company there is a substantial question as to whether the Exchange Offer is permitted by applicable federal law, the Company and the Guarantors hereby agree to use all commercially reasonable efforts to seek a no-action letter or other favorable decision from the Commission allowing the Company and the Guarantors to Consummate an Exchange Offer for such Series A Notes. The Company and the Guarantors hereby agree to use all commercially reasonable efforts to pursue the issuance of such a decision to the Commission staff level. In connection with the foregoing, the Company and the Guarantors hereby agree to take all such other actions as are requested by the Commission or otherwise required in connection with the issuance of such decision, including without limitation (A) participating in telephonic conferences with the Commission, (B) delivering to the Commission staff an analysis prepared by counsel to the Company setting forth the legal bases, if any, upon which such counsel has concluded that such an Exchange Offer should be permitted and (C) diligently pursuing a resolution (which need not be favorable) by the Commission staff of such submission. (ii) As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the Consummation of the Exchange Offer, a written representation to the Company and the Guarantors (which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to the effect that (A) it is not an affiliate of the Company, (B) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in, a distribution of the Series B Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (C) it is acquiring the Series B Notes in its ordinary course of business. Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the securities to be acquired in the Exchange Offer (1) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission enunciated in Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc. (available June 5, 1991) and Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (available May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993, and similar no-action letters (including, if applicable, any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above), and (2) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K if the resales are of Series B Notes obtained by such Holder in exchange for Series A Notes acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or an affiliate thereof. (iii) Prior to effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company and the Guarantors shall, if requested by the Commission, provide a supplemental letter to the Commission (A) stating that the Company and the Guarantors are registering the Exchange Offer in reliance on the position of the Commission enunciated in Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (available May 13, 1988), Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc. (available June 5, 1991) and, if applicable, any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above, (B) including a representation that neither the Company nor any Guarantor has entered into any arrangement or understanding with any Person to distribute the Series B Notes to be received in the Exchange Offer and that, to the best of the Company's and each Guarantor's information and belief, each Holder participating in the Exchange Offer is acquiring the Series B Notes in its ordinary course of business and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Series B Notes received in the Exchange Offer and (C) any other undertaking or representation reasonably required by the Commission as set forth in any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above. (b) Shelf Registration Statement. In connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company and the Guarantors shall comply with all the provisions of Section 6(c) below and shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to effect such registration to permit the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof (as indicated in the information furnished to the Company pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof), and pursuant thereto the Company and the Guarantors will prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the Act, which form shall be available for the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof within the time periods and otherwise in accordance with the provisions hereof. (c) General Provisions. In connection with any Registration Statement and any related Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Transfer Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the related Prospectus, to the extent that the same are required to be available to permit sales of Broker-Dealer Transfer Restricted Securities by Restricted Broker-Dealers), the Company and the Guarantors shall: (i) use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements for the period specified in Section 3 or 4 of this Agreement, as applicable. Upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any such Registration Statement or the Prospectus contained therein (A) to contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities during the period required by this Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to such Registration Statement, (1) in the case of clause (A), correcting any such untrue statement or omission, and (2) in the case of clauses (A) and (B), use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause such amendment to be declared effective and such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus to become usable for their intended purpose(s) as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter. (ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Registration Statement as may be reasonably necessary to keep the Registration Statement effective for the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, or such shorter period as will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Act, and to comply in all material respects with Rules 424, 430A and 462, as applicable, under the Act in a timely manner during the applicable period; and comply with the provisions of the Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus; (iii) advise the underwriter(s), if any, selling Holders named in any Registration Statement or Prospectus ("Named Holders") and any Restricted Broker-Dealer (whether or not named in the Registration Statement) who has requested copies of the Prospectus pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 3 hereof, or has otherwise identified itself as a Restricted Broker-Dealer to the Company, promptly and, if requested by such Persons, confirm such advice in writing, (A) when the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to any Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to the Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Act or of the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (D) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. If at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under state securities or Blue Sky laws, the Company and the Guarantors shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time; (iv) furnish to the Initial Purchasers, each Named Holder and each of the underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, before filing with the Commission, copies of any Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all documents incorporated by reference after the initial filing of such Registration Statement), which documents will be subject to the reasonable review and comment of such Named Holders and underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, for a period of at least five Business Days, and the Company will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents incorporated by reference) to which the Named Holders of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement or the underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, shall reasonably object within five Business Days after the receipt thereof. A Named Holder or underwriter, if any, shall be deemed to have reasonably objected to such filing if such Registration Statement, amendment, Prospectus or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the Act; (v) promptly prior to the filing of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Named Holders and to the underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, make the Company's and the Guarantors' representatives available as may be reasonably necessary for discussion of such document and other customary due diligence matters, and include such information in such document prior to the filing thereof as such Named Holders or underwriter(s), if any, reasonably may request; (vi) make available at reasonable business hours for inspection in the offices where such records are normally maintained by the Named Holders, any managing underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement and any attorney or accountant retained by such Named Holders or any of such underwriter(s), all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and relevant properties of the Company and the Guarantors subject to appropriate confidentiality agreements and cause the Company's and the Guarantors' officers, directors and employees to supply all information that is (a) reasonably requested by any Named Holder, underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness and (b) customarily furnished in transactions of the type contemplated by such Registration Statement; (vii) if requested by any Named Holders or the underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, promptly include in any Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such Named Holders and underwriter(s), if any, may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Transfer Restricted Securities, information with respect to the principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being sold to such underwriter(s), the purchase price being paid therefor and any other terms of the offering of the Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold in such offering; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be included in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment; (viii) furnish to each Named Holder and each of the underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, without charge, at least one copy of the Registration Statement, as first filed with the Commission, and of each amendment thereto, including all documents incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits (including exhibits incorporated therein by reference); (ix) deliver to each Named Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons reasonably may request; the Company and the Guarantors hereby consent to the use (in accordance with law) of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and each of the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto; (x) enter into such agreements (including an underwriting agreement) and make such reasonable representations and warranties and take all such other actions in connection therewith in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement as may be reasonably requested by any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or underwriter in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement, which agreements must be in customary form, and in such connection, whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an Underwritten Registration, the Company and the Guarantors shall: (A) furnish (or in the case of paragraphs (2) and (3), use their commercially reasonable efforts to furnish) to each Named Holder and each underwriter, if any, upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement: (1) a certificate, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, signed on behalf of the Company and each Guarantor by (x) the President or any Vice President and (y) a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company and such Guarantor, confirming, as of the date thereof, the matters set forth in paragraphs 8(j) of the Purchase Agreement; (2) an opinion, dated the date of the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, of counsel (which may include the General Counsel of the Company) for the Company and the Guarantors covering such matters as may be reasonably requested, which shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters and Holders; and (3) a customary "cold" comfort letter, dated as of the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, from the Company's independent accountants, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters to underwriters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, and affirming the matters set forth in the comfort letters delivered pursuant to Section 8(i) of the Purchase Agreement; and (B) set forth in full or incorporate by reference in the underwriting agreement, if any, in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement the indemnification provisions and procedures of Section 8 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section. The above shall be done at each closing under such underwriting or similar agreement, as and to the extent required thereunder, and if at any time the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contemplated in (A)(1) above cease to be true and correct, the Company and the Guarantors shall so advise the underwriter(s), if any and the Named Holders promptly and if requested by such Persons, shall confirm such advice in writing; (xi) prior to any public offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, cooperate with the Named Holders, the underwriter(s), if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration and qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Named Holders or underwriter(s), if any, may request and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the applicable Registration Statement; provided, however, that neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall be required to register or qualify as a foreign corporation where it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation, other than as to matters and transactions relating to the Registration Statement, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject; (xii) issue, upon the request of any Holder of Series A Notes covered by any Shelf Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement, Series B Notes having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Series A Notes surrendered to the Company by such Holder in exchange therefor or being sold by such Holder; such Series B Notes to be registered in the name of such Holder or in the name of the purchaser(s) of such Notes, as the case may be; in return, the Series A Notes held by such Holder shall be surrendered to the Company for cancellation; (xiii) in connection with any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities that will result in such securities no longer being Transfer Restricted Securities, cooperate with the Named Holders and each Restricted Broker-Dealer and the underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and to register such Transfer Restricted Securities in such denominations and such names as the Named Holders, Restricted Broker-Dealers or the underwriter(s), if any, may request at least two Business Days prior to such sale of Transfer Restricted Securities; (xiv) use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause the disposition of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other domestic governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof or the underwriter(s), if any, to consummate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities, subject to the proviso contained in clause (xi) above; (xv) subject to Section 6(c)(i), if any fact or event contemplated by Section 6(c)(iii)(D) above shall exist or have occurred, prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of Transfer Restricted Securities, the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (xvi) provide a CUSIP number for all Transfer Restricted Securities not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement covering such Transfer Restricted Securities and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with printed certificates for the Transfer Restricted Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company; (xvii) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the NASD and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter (including any "qualified independent underwriter") that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD, and use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and approved by such governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable the Holders selling Transfer Restricted Securities to consummate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities; (xviii) otherwise use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to make generally available to its security holders with regard to any applicable Registration Statement, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earnings statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 (which need not be audited) covering a twelve-month period beginning after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as such term is defined in paragraph (c) of Rule 158 under the Act); (xix) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement required by this Agreement and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders of Notes to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute and use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner; and (xx) provide promptly to each Holder upon request each document filed with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (d) Restrictions on Holders. Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Transfer Restricted Security that, upon receipt of the notice referred to in Section 6(c)(i) or any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 6(c)(iii)(C) or 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xv) hereof, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus (the "Advice"). If so directed by the Company, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that was current at the time of receipt of either such notice. In the event the Company shall give any such notice, the time period regarding the effectiveness of such Registration Statement set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice pursuant to Section 6(c)(i) or Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof to and including the date when each selling Holder covered by such Registration Statement shall have received the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xv) hereof or shall have received the Advice. SECTION 7. REGISTRATION EXPENSES (a) All expenses incident to the Company's and the Guarantors' performance of or compliance with this Agreement will be borne by the Company, regardless of whether a Registration Statement becomes effective, including without limitation: (i) all registration and filing fees and expenses (including filings made by any Purchaser or Holder with the NASD and its counsel that may be required by the rules and regulations of the NASD); (ii) all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state Blue Sky laws; (iii) all expenses of printing (including printing certificates for the Series B Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and printing of Prospectuses); (iv) all fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and the Guarantors; (v) all application and filing fees in connection with the listing, if any, of the Notes on a national securities exchange or automated quotation system pursuant to the requirements hereof; and (vi) all fees and disbursements of independent certified public accountants of the Company and the Guarantors (including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance). The Company will, in any event, bear its and the Guarantors' internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company or the Guarantors. (b) In connection with any Registration Statement required by this Agreement (including, without limitation, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the Shelf Registration Statement), the Company and the Guarantors will reimburse the Initial Purchasers and the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities being tendered in the Exchange Offer and/or resold pursuant to the "Plan of Distribution" contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or registered pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, for the reasonable fees and expenses (which shall not exceed $25,000 without the prior written consent of the Company) of not more than one counsel for both, who shall be Latham & Watkins unless another firm shall be chosen by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities for whose benefit such Registration Statement is being prepared. Each Holder shall pay all expenses of its counsel, except as provided in this Section 7(b), all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement. SECTION 8. INDEMNIFICATION (a) The Company and the Guarantors agree, jointly and severally, to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder, its directors, officers and each Person, if any, who controls such Holder (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses (including without limitation, any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred in investigating or defending any claim or action, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened) directly or indirectly caused by, related to, based upon, arising out of or in connection with untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, preliminary prospectus or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) provided by the Company to any Holder or any prospective purchaser of Series B Notes or registered Series A Notes, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments are caused by an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission that is based upon information relating to any of the Holders furnished in writing to the Company by any of the Holders. (b) By its acquisition of Transfer Restricted Securities, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and the Guarantors, and their respective directors and officers, and each person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) the Company or the Guarantors to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company and the Guarantors set forth in section (a) above, but only with reference to information relating to such Holder furnished in writing to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement. In no event shall any Holder, its directors, officers or any Person who controls such Holder be liable or responsible for any amount in excess of the amount by which the total amount received by such Holder with respect to its sale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement exceeds (i) the amount paid by such Holder for such Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) the amount of any damages that such Holder, its directors, officers or any Person who controls such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. (c) In case any action shall be commenced involving any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to Section 8(a) or 8(b) (the "Indemnified Party"), the Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing and the Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of such action, including the employment of counsel and the payment of all fees and expenses of such counsel, as incurred. Any Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of the Indemnified Party unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been specifically authorized in writing by the Indemnifying Party, (ii) the Indemnifying Party shall have failed to assume the defense of such action or employ counsel or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party, and the Indemnified Party shall have been advised by such counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the Indemnifying Party or that representation of the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party by the same counsel would be inappropriate under applicable standards of professional conduct (whether or not such representation by the same counsel has been proposed) due to actual or potential differing interests between them (in which case the Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to assume the defense of such action on behalf of the Indemnified Party). In any such case, the Indemnifying Party shall not, in connection with any one action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all indemnified parties and all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Such firm shall be designated in writing by a majority of the Holders, in the case of the parties indemnified pursuant to Section 8(a), and by the Company and the Guarantors, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 8(b). The Indemnifying Party shall indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnified Party from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and judgments by reason of any settlement of any action (i) effected with its written consent or (ii) effected without its written consent if the settlement is entered into more than twenty business days after the Indemnifying Party shall have received a request from the Indemnified Party for reimbursement for the fees and expenses of counsel (in any case where such fees and expenses are at the expense of the Indemnifying Party) and, prior to the date of such settlement, the Indemnifying Party shall have failed to comply with such reimbursement request. No Indemnifying Party shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, effect any settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action in respect of which the Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity or contribution may be or could have been sought hereunder by the Indemnified Party, unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are or could have been the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of the Indemnified Party. (d) To the extent that the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable to an Indemnified Party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, from their initial sale of Transfer Restricted Securities (or in the case of Series B Notes, the sale of the Series A Notes for which such Series B Notes were exchanged) or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause 8(d)(i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause 8(d)(i) but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and of the Holder, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and of the Holder, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or such Guarantor, on the one hand, or by the Holder, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and judgments referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in the second paragraph of Section 8(a), any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim. The Company, the Guarantors and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating any claim or defending any such action, suit or proceeding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, no Holder or its related Indemnified Holders shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the amount by which the total received by such Holder with respect to the sale of its Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement exceeds the sum of (A) the amount paid by such Holder for such Transfer Restricted Securities plus (B) the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8(d) are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of Series A Notes held by each of the Holders hereunder and not joint. SECTION 9. RULE 144A The Company and each Guarantor hereby agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding and during any period in which the Company or such Guarantor is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, to make available in a timely manner, upon request of any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, to any Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Transfer Restricted Securities designated by such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Act in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144A. SECTION 10. UNDERWRITTEN REGISTRATIONS No Holder may participate in any Underwritten Registration unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis provided in customary underwriting arrangements entered into in connection therewith and (b) completes and executes all reasonable questionnaires, powers of attorney, and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements. SECTION 11. SELECTION OF UNDERWRITERS For any Underwritten Offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers for any Underwritten Offering that will administer such offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering and consented to by the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Such investment bankers and managers are referred to herein as the "underwriters." SECTION 12. MISCELLANEOUS (a) Remedies. Each Holder, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights provided herein, in the Indenture, the Purchase Agreement or granted by law, including recovery of liquidated or other damages, will be entitled to specific performance of its rights under this Agreement. The Company and the Guarantors agree that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by them of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agree to waive the defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate. (b) No Inconsistent Agreements. Neither the Company nor any Guarantor will, on or after the date of this Agreement, enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's and the Guarantors' securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof. (c) Adjustments Affecting the Notes. Neither the Company nor any Guarantor will take any action, or voluntarily permit any change to occur, with respect to the Notes that is designed to and would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Holders to Consummate any Exchange Offer. (d) Amendments and Waivers. The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless (i) in the case of Section 5 hereof and this Section 12(d)(i), the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) in the case of all other provisions hereof, the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being tendered pursuant to the Exchange Offer and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other Holders whose securities are not being tendered pursuant to such Exchange Offer may be given by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities subject to such Exchange Offer. (e) Third Party Beneficiary. The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they may deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights hereunder. (f) Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery: (i) if to a Holder, at the address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy to the Registrar under the Indenture; and (ii) if to the Company or the Guarantors: Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, CO 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: General Counsel With a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Illinois) 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100 Chicago, IL 60606 Telecopier No.: (312) 407-0411 Attention: Brian W. Duwe All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the Indenture. (g) Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; provided, however, that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign acquired Transfer Restricted Securities directly from such Holder. (h) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. (i) Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. (j) GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW RULES THEREOF. (k) Severability. In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby. (l) Entire Agreement. This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above. BALL CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL AEROSPACE & TECHNOLOGIES CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL METAL BEVERAGE CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL METAL FOOD CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL METAL PACKAGING SALES CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PACKAGING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PLASTIC CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL TECHNOLOGIES HOLDING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer LATAS DE ALUMINIO BALL, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PAN-EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BG HOLDINGS I, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BG HOLDINGS II, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer EFRATOM HOLDING, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer Confirmed as of the date first above written. LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC BANC ONE CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. BNP PARIBAS SECURITIES CORP. DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN-GRANTCHESTER, INC. MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC. SUNTRUST CAPITAL MARKETS, INC. WELLS FARGO BROKERAGE SERVICES, LLC By: LEHMAN BROTHERS INC. By: Stephen Mehos --------------------------------- Name: Stephen Mehos Title: Senior Vice President
Exhibit A Guarantors 1. Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation 2. Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 3. Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation 4. Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation 5. Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation 6. Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 7. Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation 8. Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation 9. Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation 10. BG Holdings I, Inc., a Delaware corporation 11. BG Holdings II, Inc., a Delaware corporation 12. Efratom Holding, Inc., a Colorado corporation

Exhibit 4.2 BALL CORPORATION And GUARANTORS Parties Hereto $300,000,000 6 7/8% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2012 --------------------------------------------- INDENTURE DATED AS OF DECEMBER 19, 2002 ------------------------------------------- THE BANK OF NEW YORK Trustee ------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE* Trust Indenture Act Section Indenture Section 310(a)(1)................................................. 7.10 (a)(2)............................................... 7.10 (a)(3)............................................... N.A. (a)(4) .............................................. N.A. (a)(5) .............................................. 7.10 (b).................................................. 7.10 (c).................................................. N.A. 311(a).................................................... 7.11 (b).................................................. 7.11 (c).................................................. N.A. 312(a).................................................... 2.05 (b).................................................. 12.03 (c).................................................. 12.03 313(a).................................................... 7.06 (b)(2)............................................... 7.07 (c).................................................. 7.06; 12.02 (d).................................................. 7.06 314(a).................................................... 4.03; 12.02 (b).................................................. N.A. (c)(1)............................................... 12.04 (c)(2)............................................... 12.04 (c)(3)............................................... N.A. (e).................................................. 12.05 (f).................................................. N.A. 315(a).................................................... 7.01 (b).................................................. 7.05, 12.02 (c).................................................. 7.01 (d).................................................. 7.01 (e).................................................. 6.11 316(a) (last sentence).................................... 2.09 (a)(1)(A)............................................ 6.05 (a)(1)(B)............................................ 6.04 (a)(2)............................................... N.A. (b).................................................. 6.07 (c).................................................. 2.12 317(a)(1)................................................. 6.08 (a)(2)............................................... 6.09 (b).................................................. 2.04 318(a).................................................... 12.01 (b).................................................. N.A. (c).................................................. 12.01 N.A. means not applicable. *This Cross-Reference Table is not part of this Indenture.
SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE dated as of December 19, 2002 by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), the Guarantors (as defined below) and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Company and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes hereunder: ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Section 1.01 Definitions. "144A Global Note" means a global note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A. "Acquired Debt" means, with respect to any specified Person, Indebtedness, including Disqualified Stock, of any other Person existing at the time such other Person is merged with or into, becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of such specified Person or is otherwise assumed by such specified Person in connection with an acquisition of assets from such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, such other Person merging with or into, or becoming a Restricted Subsidiary of, such specified Person or the acquisition of assets from such person. "Acquisition" means the acquisition by the Company of 100% of the capital stock of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG pursuant to the Share Sale and Transfer Agreement entered into on August 29, 2002. "Additional Assets" means: (1) any property or assets, other than Capital Stock, Indebtedness or rights to receive payments over a period greater than 180 days, that are usable by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in a Permitted Business; or (2) the Capital Stock of a Person that is at the time, or becomes, a Restricted Subsidiary as a result of the acquisition of such Capital Stock by the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary. "Additional Notes" means any Notes (other than the Initial Notes) issued under this Indenture in accordance with Sections 2.02 and 4.09 hereof, as part of the same series as the Initial Notes. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; provided, that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Voting Stock of a Person shall be deemed to be in control. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings. "Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar. "Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange. "Asset Sale" means: (1) the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of any assets or rights other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices; provided, that the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole will be governed by the provisions of this Indenture described under Section 4.15 and/or the provisions described under Section 5.01 hereof and not by the provisions of Section 4.10 hereof; and (2) the issuance or sale of Equity Interests in any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries, and in the case of either clause (1) or (2), whether in a single transaction or series of related transactions (a) that have a fair market value in excess of $10 million or (b) for Net Proceeds in excess of $10 million. Notwithstanding the preceding, none of the following items will be deemed to be an Asset Sale: (1) a transfer of assets or rights by the Company to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (2) an issuance or sale of Equity Interests by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (3) the sale or lease of equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other current assets in the ordinary course of business; (4) the sale or other disposition of cash or Cash Equivalents; (5) a Restricted Payment that is not prohibited by Section 4.07 or a Permitted Investment; (6) sales, conveyances or other transfers of receivables and related assets (A) to a Securitization Entity or to another Person as contemplated by the definition of "Qualified Securitization Transaction" in a Qualified Securitization Transaction or (B) in connection with the Schmalbach Receivables Facility; (7) the sale or disposition of obsolete, uneconomical, worn out or surplus property or equipment; (8) the surrender or waiver of contract rights or settlement, release or surrender of a contract, tort or other litigation claim in the ordinary course of business; (9) the granting of Liens not prohibited by this Indenture; (10) any exchange of like property pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for use in a Permitted Business; (11) the lease, assignment or sublease of any real or personal property in the ordinary course of business; and (12) any sale of Equity Interests in, or Indebtedness or other securities of, an Unrestricted Subsidiary. "Attributable Debt" in respect of a sale and leaseback transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such sale and leaseback transaction including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value shall be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP. "Ball Asia Pacific" means Ball Asia Pacific Limited, a Hong Kong company, and its affiliates and joint ventures. "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. "Beneficial Owner" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person", as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, such "person" will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" have a corresponding meaning. "Board of Directors" means: (1) with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation; (2) with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership; and (3) with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function. "Business Day" means any day other than a Legal Holiday. "Capital Lease Obligation" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP. "Capital Stock" means: (1) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock; (2) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents, however designated, of corporate stock; (3) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests, whether general or limited; and (4) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person. "Cash Equivalents" means: (1) United States dollars; (2) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or any agency or instrumentality of the United States government having maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition; (3) certificates of deposit and eurodollar time deposits with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition, bankers' acceptances with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition and overnight bank deposits, in each case, with any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500 million and a Thomson Bank Watch Rating of "B" or better; (4) repurchase obligations with a term of not more than seven days for underlying securities of the types described in clauses (2) and (3) above entered into with any financial institution meeting the qualifications specified in clause (3) above; (5) commercial paper having the highest rating obtainable from Moody's, or one of the two highest ratings from S&P and in each case maturing within six months after the date of acquisition; (6) money market funds at least 95% of the assets of which constitute Cash Equivalents of the kinds described in clauses (1) through (5) of this definition; and (7) in the case of any Foreign Subsidiary; (a) direct obligations of the sovereign nation, or any agency thereof, in which such Foreign Subsidiary is organized and is conducting business or in obligations fully and unconditionally guaranteed by such sovereign nation, or any agency thereof; (b) investments of the type and maturity described in clauses (1) through (6) above of foreign obligors, which investments or obligors have ratings described in such clauses or equivalent ratings from comparable foreign rating agencies; or (c) investments of the type and maturity described in clauses (1) through (6) above of foreign obligors which investments or obligors are not rated as provided in such clauses or in clause (b) above but which are, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, comparable in investment quality to such investments and obligors, or the direct or indirect parent of such obligors. "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, other than by way of merger or consolidation, in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person", as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act; (2) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (3) the consummation of any transaction, including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation, the result of which is that any "person," as defined above, becomes the ultimate Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or (5) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person or sells, assigns, conveys, transfers, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction is converted into or exchanged for Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person constituting a majority of the outstanding shares of such Voting Stock of such surviving or transferee Person (immediately after giving effect to such issuance). "Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, societe anonyme. "Company" means Ball Corporation, and any and all successors thereto. "Consolidated Cash Flow" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period plus: (1) an amount equal to any extraordinary loss plus any net loss realized by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale, to the extent such losses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income; plus (2) provision for taxes based on income or profits of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes was included in computing such Consolidated Net Income; plus (3) consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued and whether or not capitalized, including, without limitation, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, imputed interest with respect to Attributable Debt, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings and receivables financings, and net payments, if any, pursuant to Hedging Obligations, to the extent that any such expense was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income; plus (4) depreciation, amortization, including amortization of goodwill and other intangibles but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period, and other non-cash expenses, excluding any such non-cash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period, of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the extent that such depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income; minus (5) non-cash items increasing such Consolidated Net Income for such period, other than items that were accrued in the ordinary course of business, in each case, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Net Income" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP; provided, that: (1) the Net Income (but not loss) of any Person (other than the Company) that is not a Restricted Subsidiary or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting shall be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions paid in cash to the specified Person or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Person; (2) the Net Income of any Restricted Subsidiary shall be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by that Restricted Subsidiary of that Net Income is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval, that has not been obtained or, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders; (3) the Net Income of any Person acquired in a pooling of interests transaction for any period prior to the date of such acquisition shall be excluded; and (4) the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles shall be excluded. "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who: (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Indenture; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such nomination or election. "Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee" shall be at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 12.02 hereof or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Company. "Credit Facilities" means one or more debt facilities, including, without limitation, the New Credit Facilities, or commercial paper facilities, in each case with banks, investment funds or other lenders providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financings, including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables or letters of credit, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time. "Custodian" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto. "Default" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default. "Definitive Note" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.06 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto. "Depositary" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.03 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture. "Designated Noncash Consideration" means the fair market value of noncash consideration received by the Company or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale that is so designated as Designated Noncash Consideration pursuant to an Officers' Certificate, setting forth the basis of such valuation, executed by the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of the Company, less the amount of cash or Cash Equivalents received in connection with a sale of such Designated Noncash Consideration. "Disqualified Stock" means any Capital Stock that, by its terms, or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable, in each case at the option of the holder of the security, or upon the happening of any event, matures, excluding any maturity as the result of the optional redemption thereof, or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date on which the Notes mature, except to the extent that such Capital Stock is solely redeemable with, or solely exchangeable for, any Equity Interests of the Company that are not Disqualified Stock; provided, however, that only the portion of the Capital Stock or other security which so matures, is mandatorily redeemable or is so redeemable at the option of the holder prior to such date shall be deemed to be Disqualified Stock; provided further that if such Capital Stock or other security is issued to any employee or to any plan for the benefit of employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries or by any such plan to such employees, such Capital Stock or other security shall not constitute Disqualified Stock solely because it may be required to be repurchased by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in order to satisfy applicable statutory or regulatory obligations or as a result of such employee's termination, death or disability. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders of the Capital Stock have the right to require the Company to repurchase such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a change of control or an asset sale shall not constitute Disqualified Stock if the terms of such Capital Stock provide that the Company may not repurchase or redeem any such Capital Stock pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption complies with Section 4.07 hereof. "Domestic Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary that is formed under the laws of the United States or any state of the United States or the District of Columbia or that guarantees or otherwise provides direct credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or its Domestic Subsidiaries. "Equity Interests" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock, but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock. "Equity Offering" means: (1) an offering or sale of Capital Stock, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company; or (2) the contribution of cash to the Company as an equity capital contribution, other than in respect of Disqualified Stock. "Euroclear" means Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Brussels office, as operator of the Euroclear system. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Offer" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Excluded Subsidiary" means each of the following Subsidiaries of the Company: Ball Corporation, a Nevada corporation; Ball Glass Containers, Inc., a Delaware corporation; Ball Metal Container Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Ball Technology Licensing Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Heekin Can, Inc., a Colorado corporation; Muncie and Western Railroad Company, an Indiana corporation; Ball Asia Services Limited, a Delaware corporation; Ball Glass Container Corporation, a Delaware corporation; Ball Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation; Ball Technology Services Corporation, a California corporation; Laser Communications International L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company and Space Operations International, L.L.C., a Maryland limited liability company, together with such other Subsidiaries of the Company as may from time to time be designated by the Company as "Excluded Subsidiaries" pursuant to an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee; provided, that each such Subsidiary shall be an Excluded Subsidiary only if and only for so long as: (1) the aggregate of the net sales of all such Subsidiaries shall not exceed $10 million in any twelve-month period; and (2) the aggregate of the assets, including capitalization, of all such Subsidiaries as of any date shall not exceed $10 million. "Existing Indebtedness" means Indebtedness of the Company, the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries and Schmalbach-Lubeca AG and its Subsidiaries, other than Indebtedness under the New Credit Facilities, in existence on the date of this Indenture. "Existing Notes" means the Existing Senior Notes and the Existing Subordinated Notes. "Existing Senior Notes" means up to $300 million of the Company's 7 3/4% Senior Notes due 2006. "Existing Subordinated Notes" means up to $250 million of the Company's 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008. "Existing Subordinated Notes Indenture" means the indenture governing the Company's Existing Subordinated Notes. "Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio" means with respect to any specified Person for any period, the ratio of the Consolidated Cash Flow of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the Fixed Charges of such Person its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period. In the event that the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries incurs, assumes, Guarantees, repays, repurchases or redeems any Indebtedness (other than ordinary working capital borrowings) or issues, repurchases or redeems preferred stock subsequent to the commencement of the period for which the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is being calculated and on or prior to the date on which the event for which the calculation of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is made (the "Calculation Date"), then the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio shall be calculated giving pro forma effect to such incurrence, assumption, Guarantee, repayment, repurchase or redemption of Indebtedness, or such issuance, repurchase or redemption of preferred stock, and the use of the proceeds therefrom as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter reference period. In addition, for purposes of calculating the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio: (1) acquisitions that have been made by the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, including through mergers or consolidations and including any related financing transactions, during the four-quarter reference period or subsequent to such reference period and on or prior to the Calculation Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day of the four-quarter reference period and Consolidated Cash Flow for such reference period shall be calculated without giving effect to clause (3) of the proviso set forth in the definition of Consolidated Net Income; (2) the Consolidated Cash Flow attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, shall be excluded; and (3) the Fixed Charges attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, shall be excluded, but only to the extent that the obligations giving rise to such Fixed Charges will not be obligations of the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries following the Calculation Date. "Fixed Charges" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the sum, without duplication, of: (1) the consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued, including, without limitation, to the extent properly characterized as interest expense in accordance with GAAP, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, imputed interest with respect to Attributable Debt, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings, and net payments, if any, pursuant to Hedging Obligations; (2) the consolidated interest of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries that was capitalized during such period; (3) any interest expense on Indebtedness of another Person that is Guaranteed by such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries or secured by a Lien on assets of such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries, whether or not such Guarantee or Lien is called upon; and (4) all dividend payments, whether or not in cash, on any series of preferred stock of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than dividends on Equity Interests payable solely in Equity Interests of the Company, other than Disqualified Stock, or to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company. "Foreign Subsidiaries" means Subsidiaries of the Company that are not Domestic Subsidiaries. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable as of the date of this Indenture. "Global Note Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(ii), which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture. "Global Notes" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes, in the form of Exhibit A hereto issued in accordance with Section 2.01, 2.06(b)(3), 2.06(b)(4), 2.06(d)(2) or 2.06(f) hereof. "Government Securities" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America, and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit. "Guarantee" means a guarantee, other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Indebtedness. "Guarantors" means: (1) each of Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation, Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, BG Holdings I, Inc., a Delaware corporation, BG Holdings II, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Efratom Holding, Inc., a Colorado corporation, and any other Domestic Subsidiary of the Company as of the date of this Indenture (other than Ball Capital Corp., Ball Asia Pacific, any other Unrestricted Subsidiary and the Excluded Subsidiaries); and (2) any other Subsidiary of the Company that executes a Supplemental Indenture in the form of Exhibit F and becomes a Guarantor in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture; and their respective successors and assigns. "Hedging Counterparty" means, with respect to any Hedging Obligations, any counterparty thereto, at the time such Hedging Obligations are initially incurred, that is a holder, or an Affiliate thereof, of Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities. For clarification, such counterparty (and its successors and assigns) shall be deemed a Hedging Counterparty even if it or its Affiliate ceases to be a holder of Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities for any reason. "Hedging Obligations" means, with respect to any specified Person, the net payment Obligations of such Person under: (1) interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements; and (2) other agreements or arrangements in respect of such Person's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, currency exchange rates or interest rates and, in each case, not entered into for speculative purposes. "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered. "IAI Global Note" means the global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold to Institutional Accredited Investors. "Indebtedness" means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent: (1) in respect of borrowed money; (2) evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit, or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof; (3) in respect of banker's acceptances; (4) representing Capital Lease Obligations; (5) representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable; or (6) representing any Hedging Obligations, if and to the extent any of the preceding items, other than letters of credit and Hedging Obligations, would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of the specified Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the term "Indebtedness" includes all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person, and, to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by the specified Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person or any liability of any person, whether or not contingent and whether or not it appears on the balance sheet of such Person. The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date shall be: (1) the accreted value of the Indebtedness, in the case of any Indebtedness that does not require the current payment of interest; and (2) the principal amount of the Indebtedness, together with any interest on the Indebtedness that is more than 30 days past due, in the case of any other Indebtedness. "Indenture" means this Indenture, as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time. "Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant. "Initial Notes" means the first $300 million aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under this Indenture on the date hereof. "Institutional Accredited Investor" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who is not also a QIB. "Investments" means, with respect to any Person, all investments by such Person in other Persons, including Affiliates, in the form of loans, including Guarantees of Indebtedness or other Obligations, advances or capital contributions, excluding commission, travel, entertainment, moving and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business, prepaid expenses and accounts receivable, purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. If the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the fair market value of the Equity Interests of such Restricted Subsidiary that were not sold or disposed of in an amount determined as provided in the final paragraph of Section 4.07 hereof. "Legal Holiday" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, the city in which the principal office of the Trustee is located or at a place of payment are authorized by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the intervening period. "Letter of Transmittal" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer. "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or any lease in the nature thereof; provided that in no event shall an operating lease be deemed to constitute a Lien. "Limited Originator Recourse" means a reimbursement obligation to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in connection with a drawing on a letter of credit, revolving loan commitment, cash collateral account or other such credit enhancement issued to support Indebtedness of a Securitization Entity under a facility for the financing of trade receivables; provided, that the available amount of any such form of credit enhancement at any time shall not exceed 10% of the principal amount of such Indebtedness at such time. "Liquidated Damages" means the liquidated damages then owing under the Registration Rights Agreement. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Net Income" means, with respect to any specified Person, the net income or loss of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of preferred stock dividends, excluding, however: (1) any gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such gain or loss, realized in connection with the disposition of any securities by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or the extinguishment of any Indebtedness of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; (2) any extraordinary gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such extraordinary gain or loss; and (3) any one-time noncash charges (including legal, accounting and debt issuance costs) resulting from the Transactions. "Net Proceeds" means the aggregate cash proceeds or Cash Equivalents received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale, including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Sale, net of all costs relating to such Asset Sale, including, without limitation, legal, accounting, investment banking and brokers fees, and sales and underwriting commissions, and any relocation expenses incurred as a result thereof, taxes paid or payable as a result thereof (after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements), and amounts required to be applied to the repayment of Indebtedness, other than Indebtedness under a Credit Facility secured by a Lien on the asset or assets that were the subject of such Asset Sale and any reserve for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets established in accordance with GAAP. "New Credit Facilities" means that certain credit facility, to be entered into in connection with the transactions, which will consist of term loan facilities in the amounts of $350 million, (euro)414 million and (pound)79 million and revolving credit facilities in an aggregate U.S. dollar equivalent amount of $450 million. "Non-Recourse Debt" means Indebtedness: (1) as to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than a Securitization Entity, if applicable, (a) provides credit support of any kind, including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Indebtedness, (b) is directly or indirectly liable as a guarantor or otherwise or (c) constitutes the lender; (2) no default with respect to which, including any rights that the holders of the Indebtedness may have to take enforcement action against an Unrestricted Subsidiary, would permit upon notice, lapse of time or both any holder of any other Indebtedness, other than the Notes, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to declare a default on such other Indebtedness or cause the payment of the Indebtedness to be accelerated or payable prior to its stated maturity; and (3) as to which the lenders have been notified in writing that they will not have any recourse to the stock or assets of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than a Securitization Entity, if applicable. "Non-U.S. Person" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person. "Notes" means notes issued under this Indenture. The Initial Notes and the Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture, and unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the Notes shall include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes. "Obligations" means any principal, premium, if any, interest, including interest accruing on or after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization relating to the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries whether or not a claim for post-filing interest is allowed in such proceeding, penalties, fees, charges, expenses, indemnifications, reimbursement obligations, damages, including liquidated damages, guarantees and other liabilities or amounts payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness or in respect thereof. "Officer" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be a vice-president, the principal financial officer, the treasurer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 hereof. "Opinion of Counsel" means an opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee, that meets the requirements of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or the Trustee. "Participant" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to The Depository Trust Company, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream). "Participating Broker-Dealer" means a broker-dealer participating in the Exchange Offer. "Permitted Business" means the lines of business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on the date of this Indenture and businesses substantially similar, related or incidental thereto or reasonable extensions thereof. "Permitted Investments" means: (1) any Investment in the Company or in a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (2) any Investment in Cash Equivalents; (3) any Investment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in a Person engaged in a Permitted Business, if as a result of such Investment: (a) such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; or (b) such Person is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (4) any Investment made as a result of the receipt of non-cash consideration from an Asset Sale that was made pursuant to and in compliance with Section 4.10 hereof (including, without limitation, any sale or other disposition of all or a portion of the business constituting the aerospace and technologies segment of the Company) or any other disposition of assets not constituting an Asset Sale; (5) any Investment made in exchange for the issuance of Equity Interests, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company; (6) other Investments in any Person having an aggregate fair market value, measured on the date each such Investment was made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value, when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (6) since the date of this Indenture not to exceed 2.5% of Total Assets; (7) Hedging Obligations; (8) (a) any Investment by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in a Securitization Entity or any Investment by a Securitization Entity in any other Person in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; provided, that any Investment in a Securitization Entity is in the form of a Purchase Money Note or an Equity Interest, or (b) any sale or transfer of receivables in connection with the Schmalbach Receivables Facility; (9) any Investment existing on the date of this Indenture and any amendment, modification, restatement, supplement, extension, renewal, refunding, replacement, or refinancing, in whole or in part, thereof; (10) any Investments received in satisfaction of judgments, settlements of debt or compromises of obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, including pursuant to any plan of reorganization or similar arrangement upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of any trade creditor or customer; (11) any Investment in Ball Asia Pacific, the proceeds of which are used to permanently repay Indebtedness of Ball Asia Pacific in an amount up to the amount that was outstanding on August 10, 1998, plus any interest, prepayment penalty and reasonable costs associated with such repayment; (12) Investments in Permitted Joint Ventures of up to $50 million outstanding at any time; (13) receivables owing to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company if created or acquired in the ordinary course of business and payable or dischargeable in accordance with customary trade terms; provided that such trade terms may include such concessionary trade terms as the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary deems reasonable under the circumstances; (14) Investments deemed to have been made as a result of the acquisition of a Person that at the time of such acquisition held instruments constituting Investments that were not acquired in contemplation of the acquisition of such Person; (15) Investments in prepaid expenses and lease, utility and workers' compensation performance and other similar deposits; (16) commission, payroll, travel and similar advances to employees in the ordinary course of business; (17) Investments consisting of intercompany indebtedness not prohibited under this Indenture; (18) Investments consisting of the licensing or contribution of intellectual property pursuant to joint marketing arrangements with other Persons; and (19) Investments consisting of purchases and acquisitions of inventory, supplies, materials and equipment or purchases of contract rights or licenses or leases of intellectual property, in each case in the ordinary course of business. "Permitted Joint Venture" means an entity characterized as a joint venture, however structured, engaged in a Permitted Business and in which the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (a) owns at least 40% of the ownership interest or (b) has a right to receive at least 40% of the profits or distributions; provided that such joint venture is not a Subsidiary of the Company. "Permitted Liens" means: (1) Liens on assets, including, without limitation, the capital stock of a Subsidiary, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to secure Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities that is permitted by the terms of this Indenture to be incurred, whether pursuant to the terms of the first or second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof or otherwise; (2) Liens on the assets, including, but not limited to, the capital stock of a Subsidiary, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to secure Indebtedness in respect of any Hedging Obligations to any Hedging Counterparty, but only to the extent that such Hedging Obligations relate to Indebtedness that is permitted by the terms of this Indenture to be incurred; (3) Liens on property or assets of a Person existing at the time such Person is acquired by, or merged into or consolidated with, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; provided, that such Liens were not put in place in contemplation thereof and do not extend to any property or assets other than those of the Person acquired by, or merged into or consolidated with, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (4) Liens on property or assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, provided, that such Liens were not put in place in contemplation thereof and only extend to the property or assets so acquired; (5) Liens existing on the date of this Indenture; (6) Liens to secure any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refinance any Indebtedness secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (1) through (5), as the case may be, at the time the original Lien became a Permitted Lien; (7) Liens in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (8) Liens to secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (xvi) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof; (9) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with respect to obligations that do not exceed $50 million in the aggregate at any one time outstanding and that (a) are not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit, other than trade credit in the ordinary course of business, and (b) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of business by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; (10) Liens incurred or deposits made to secure the performance of statutory or regulatory obligations, bankers' acceptances, surety or appeal bonds, performance bonds, deposits to secure the performance of tenders, bids, trade contracts, government contracts, import duties, payment of rent, performance, letters of credit and return-of-money bonds, leases or licenses or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business, including, without limitation, landlord Liens on leased properties; (11) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent, that are not subject to penalties or interest for non-payment or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; provided, that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required to conform with GAAP shall have been made therefor; (12) Liens to secure Indebtedness, including Capital Lease Obligations, permitted by clause (iv) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof covering only the assets acquired with such Indebtedness; (13) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', materialmen's, repairmen's, suppliers' or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and deposits made to obtain the release of such liens and with respect of obligations not overdue for a period in excess of 60 days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; provided, that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required to conform with GAAP shall have been made therefor; (14) easements, rights-of-way, zoning ordinances and similar charges, restrictions, exceptions or other irregularities, reservations of, or rights of others for: licenses, sewers, electric lines, telegraph and telephone lines, and other similar encumbrances or title defects incurred, or leases or subleases granted to others, in the ordinary course of business, which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or do not materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (15) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business; (16) leases or subleases granted to third Persons not materially interfering with the ordinary course of business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (17) Liens, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder, incurred or pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other types of social security; (18) deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure liability to insurance carriers; (19) Liens for purchase money obligations, including refinancings thereof permitted under Section 4.09 hereof, provided, that (a) the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof and (b) any such Lien encumbers only the asset so purchased; (20) any attachment or judgment Lien not constituting an Event of Default under clause (i) of Section 6.01 hereof and Liens arising from the rendering of a judgment that is not a final judgment or order against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is then proceeding with an appeal or other proceeding for review or in connection with surety or appeal bonds in connection with such attachment or judgment; (21) any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor under any operating lease or capital lease; (22) Liens (A) on assets transferred to a Securitization Entity or on assets of a Securitization Entity, in either case incurred in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction or (B) incurred pursuant to the Schmalbach Receivables Facility; (23) Liens under licensing agreements for use of intellectual property entered into in the ordinary course of business; (24) Liens arising from Uniform Commercial Code financing statement filings regarding operating leases entered into by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business; and (25) Rights of set-off of banks and other Persons. "Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than intercompany Indebtedness; provided, that: (1) the principal amount, or accreted value, if applicable, of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount, or accreted value, if applicable, of the Indebtedness extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded, plus all accrued interest and premiums on the Indebtedness and the amount of all fees, expenses, prepayment penalties and premiums incurred in connection therewith; (2) such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; (3) if the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is subordinated in right of payment to the Notes, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and is subordinated in right of payment to, the Notes on terms at least as favorable to the holders of Notes as those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; and (4) such Indebtedness is incurred either by the Company or by the Restricted Subsidiary who is the obligor on the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity. "Private Placement Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(i) to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture. "Purchase Money Note" means a promissory note of a Securitization Entity evidencing a line of credit, which may be irrevocable, from the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction, which note shall be repaid from cash available to the Securitization Entity, other than amounts required to be established as reserves pursuant to agreements, amounts paid to investors in respect of interest, principal and other amounts owing to such investors and amounts paid in connection with the purchase of newly generated receivables. "QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A. "Qualified Securitization Transaction" means any transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (a) a Securitization Entity, in the case of a transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and (b) any other Person, in case of a transfer by a Securitization Entity, or may grant a security interest in, any receivables, whether now existing or arising or acquired in the future, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto including, without limitation, all collateral securing such receivables, all contracts and contract rights and all Guarantees or other obligations in respect of such receivables, proceeds of such receivables and other assets, including contract rights, which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving receivables, collectively, "transferred assets"; provided, that, in the case of any such transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, the transferor receives cash or Purchase Money Notes in an amount which, when aggregated with the cash and Purchase Money Notes received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries upon all other such transfers of transferred assets during the 90 days preceding such transfer, is at least equal to 75% of the aggregate face amount of all receivables so transferred during such day and the 90 preceding days. "Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement with respect to the Notes, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. "Regulation S" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act. "Regulation S Global Note" means a Regulation S Temporary Global Note or Regulation S Permanent Global Note, as appropriate. "Regulation S Permanent Global Note" means a permanent global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Note upon expiration of the Restricted Period. "Regulation S Temporary Global Note" means a temporary global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S. "Responsible Officer" when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture. "Restricted Definitive Note" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Restricted Global Note" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Restricted Investment" means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment. "Restricted Period" means the 40-day restricted period as defined in Regulation S. "Restricted Subsidiary" of a Person means any Subsidiary of the referent Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary; provided, that, on the date of this Indenture, all Subsidiaries of the Company other than Ball Asia Pacific, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries shall be Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company. "Rule 144" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 903" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 904" means Rule 904 promulgated the Securities Act. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group. "Schmalbach-Lubeca AG" means Schmalbach-Lubeca AG, and any and all successors thereto, including, but not limited to Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH. "Schmalbach Receivables Facility" means the existing accounts receivable securitization program of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG and its Subsidiaries as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced, increased or refinanced, in whole or in part, from time to time by one or more of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG and its existing and future European subsidiaries, the Company's European affiliates that are Restricted Subsidiaries and Ball Capital Corp.; provided that, the principal or capital amount outstanding under any such facility shall not exceed (euro)100 million in the aggregate. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Securitization Entity" means a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Company, or another Person in which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company makes an Investment and to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company transfers receivables and related assets, that engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of receivables and that is designated by the Board of the Directors of the Company, as provided below, as a Securitization Entity (a) no portion of the Indebtedness or any other Obligations, contingent or otherwise, of which (1) is guaranteed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, other than the Securitization Entity, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (2) is recourse to or obligates the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, other than the Securitization Entity, in any way other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse or (3) subjects any property or asset of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, other than the Securitization Entity, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction thereof, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (b) with which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any material contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding other than on terms no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company, other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business in connection with servicing receivables of such entity and (c) to which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any obligation to maintain or preserve such entity's financial condition or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results. Any such designation by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions. "Series A Notes" means the $300.0 million of 6?% Senior Notes due 2012 issued hereunder. "Series B Notes" means the notes issued in the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2.06(f) hereof. "Shelf Registration Statement" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Significant Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Indenture. "Standard Securitization Undertakings" means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company that are reasonably customary in receivables securitization transactions. "Stated Maturity" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and shall not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any specified Person: (1) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled, without regard to the occurrence of any contingency, to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person; and (2) any partnership (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or an entity described in clause (1) and related to such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or one or more entities described in clause (1) and related to such Person, or any combination thereof. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date on which this Indenture is qualified under the TIA. "Total Assets" means the total assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP, as shown on the most recently available consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. "Transactions" means the Acquisition, the offering of the Initial Notes, the repayment of approximately $389 million of certain existing debt of the Company, the borrowings under the New Credit Facilities on the date of this Indenture, the Company's consent solicitation completed on December 3, 2002 and the payment of related fees and expenses. "Unrestricted Definitive Note" means one or more Definitive Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend. "Unrestricted Global Note" means a permanent global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto that bears the Global Note Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means (a) each of Ball Asia Pacific, Ball Capital Corp., and the Excluded Subsidiaries and (b) any Subsidiary of the Company that is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a board resolution, but only to the extent that such Subsidiary: (1) has no Indebtedness other than Non-Recourse Debt; (2) is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company unless the terms of any such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of the Company; (3) is a Person with respect to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation (a) to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or (b) to maintain or preserve such Person's net worth; and (4) has not guaranteed or otherwise directly or indirectly provided credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may guarantee the performance of Unrestricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business except for guarantees of Obligations in respect of borrowed money. Any designation of a Subsidiary of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the board resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions and was permitted by Section 4.07 hereof. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the preceding requirements as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it shall thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Indenture and any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary shall be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as of such date and, if such Indebtedness is not permitted to be incurred as of such date under Section 4.09 hereof, the Company shall be in default of such Section 4.09. The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; provided, that such designation shall be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation shall only be permitted if (1) such Indebtedness is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof, calculated on a pro forma basis as if such designation had occurred at the beginning of the four-quarter reference period; and (2) no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation. "U.S. Person" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act. "Voting Stock" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person. "Weighted Average Life to Maturity" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing: (1) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect of the Indebtedness, by (b) the number of years, calculated to the nearest one-twelfth, that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment; by (2) the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness. "Wholly-owned Subsidiary" means a Restricted Subsidiary, 100% of the outstanding Capital Stock and other Equity Interests of which are directly or indirectly owned by the Company. Section 1.02 Other Definitions. Defined in Term Section "Affiliate Transaction"......................................... 4.11 "Asset Sale Offer".............................................. 4.10 "Authentication Order".......................................... 2.02 "Calculation Date".............................................. 1.01 "Change of Control Offer"....................................... 4.15 "Change of Control Payment...................................... 4.15 "Change of Control Payment Date"................................ 4.15 "Covenant Defeasance"........................................... 8.03 "DTC"........................................................... 2.03 "Event of Default".............................................. 6.01 "Excess Proceeds"............................................... 4.10 "Incur"......................................................... 4.09 "Investment Grade Ratings"...................................... 4.21 "Legal Defeasance".............................................. 8.02 "Offer Amount".................................................. 3.09 "Offer Period".................................................. 3.09 "Other Indebtedness"............................................ 4.16 "Paying Agent".................................................. 2.03 "Payment Default"............................................... 6.01 "Permitted Debt"................................................ 4.09 "Purchase Date"................................................. 3.09 "Rating Agencies"............................................... 4.19 "Registrar"..................................................... 2.03 "Restricted Payments"........................................... 4.07 "Suspended Covenants"........................................... 4.21 Section 1.03 Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act. Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings: "indenture securities" means the Notes; "indenture security holder" means a Holder of a Note; "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture; "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee; and "obligor" on the Notes and the Guarantees means the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, and any successor obligor upon the Notes and the Guarantees, respectively. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them. Section 1.04 Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires: (1) a term has the meaning assigned to it; (2) an accounting term not otherwise defined herein has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP; (3) "or" is not exclusive; (4) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular; (5) provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and (6) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act shall be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time. ARTICLE 2. THE SENIOR NOTES Section 2.01 Form and Dating. (a) General. The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of this Indenture shall govern and be controlling. (b) Global Notes. Notes issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Notes issued in definitive form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Note Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 hereof. (c) Temporary Global Notes. Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of the Regulation S Temporary Global Note, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, at its New York office, as custodian for the Depositary, and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary for the accounts of designated agents holding on behalf of Euroclear or Clearstream, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The Restricted Period shall be terminated upon the receipt by the Trustee of (i) a written certificate from the Depositary, together with copies of certificates from Euroclear and Clearstream certifying that they have received certification of non-United States beneficial ownership of 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Note (except to the extent of any beneficial owners thereof who acquired an interest therein during the Restricted Period pursuant to another exemption from registration under the Securities Act and who will take delivery of a beneficial ownership interest in a 144A Global Note or an IAI Global Note bearing a Private Placement Legend, all as contemplated by Section 2.06(b) hereof), and (ii) an Officers' Certificate from the Company. Following the termination of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note shall be exchanged for beneficial interests in Regulation S Permanent Global Notes pursuant to the Applicable Procedures. Simultaneously with the authentication of Regulation S Permanent Global Notes, the Trustee shall cancel the Regulation S Temporary Global Note. The aggregate principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Note and the Regulation S Permanent Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, in connection with transfers of interest as hereinafter provided. (d) Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable. The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream Bank" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note and the Regulation S Permanent Global Notes that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream. Section 2.02 Execution and Authentication. One Officer shall sign the Notes for the Company and the Guarantees for the Guarantors by manual or facsimile signature. If an Officer whose signature is on a Note and/or a Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time such Note and/or Guarantee is authenticated, such Note and/or Guarantee shall nevertheless be valid. A Note and/or a Guarantee shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note or Guarantee, as applicable, has been authenticated under this Indenture. The Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Company signed by one Officer (an "Authentication Order"), authenticate Notes and Guarantees for original issue in accordance with this Indenture. The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes and Guarantees whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company. Section 2.03 Registrar and Paying Agent. The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("Registrar") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment ("Paying Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar. The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes. The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes. Section 2.04 Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust. The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on the Notes, and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Notes. Section 2.05 Holder Lists. The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Notes and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a). Section 2.06 Transfer and Exchange. (a) Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes shall be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if: (1) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; or (2) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; provided that in no event shall the Regulation S Temporary Global Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(c)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act. Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in (1) or (2) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.10 hereof. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.06 or Section 2.07 or 2.10 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.06(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 2.06(b), (c) or (f) hereof. (b) Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes. The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable: (1) Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note. Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; provided, however, that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Temporary Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.06(b)(1). (2) All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes. In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.06(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either: (A) (i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and (ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or (B) (i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and (ii) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; provided that in no event shall Definitive Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903 under the Securities Act. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.06(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.06(b)(2) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof. (3) Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(2) above and the Registrar receives the following: (A) (if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note or the Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and (C) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications and certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable. (4) Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in the Unrestricted Global Note. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(2) above and: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal or via the Depositary's book-entry system that it is not (i) a broker-dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Series B Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or (ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above. Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note. (c) Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes. (1) Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes. If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation: (A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof; (B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; (D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof; (E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; (F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or (G) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein. Notwithstanding Sections 2.06(c)(1)(A) and (C) hereof, a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(b)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904. (2) Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes. A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a broker-dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Series B Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or (ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. (3) Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes. If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.06(b)(3) hereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(3) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(iii) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend. (d) Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests. (1) Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes. If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation: (A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof; (B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; (D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof; (E) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; (F) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or (G) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof, the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, in the case of clause (c) above, the Regulation S Global Note, and in all other cases, the IAI Global Note. (2) Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes. A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Series B Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (i) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or (ii) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.06(d)(2), the Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note. (3) Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes. A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes. If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2)(B), (2)(D) or (3) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred. (e) Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes. Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.06(e), the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.06(e). (1) Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes. Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following: (A) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (B) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and (C) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable. (2) Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes. Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Series B Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; (C) any such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (i) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or (ii) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. (3) Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes. A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof. (f) Exchange Offer. Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02, the Trustee shall authenticate: (1) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not broker-dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Series B Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer; and (2) Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Notes so accepted Definitive Notes in the appropriate principal amount. (g) Legends. The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture. (1) Private Placement Legend. (A) Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form: "THE NOTES EVIDENCED HEREBY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT (A)(1) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (2) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (3) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE), (4) TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR (5) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND (B) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE BLUE SKY LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES." (B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(iv), (c)(ii), (c)(iii), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (f) to this Section 2.06 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend. (2) Global Note Legend. Each Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SENIOR NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN." (3) Regulation S Temporary Global Note Legend. The Regulation S Temporary Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE PAYMENT OF INTEREST HEREON." (h) Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes. At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.11 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase. (i) General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges. (1) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Registrar's request. (2) No service charge shall be made to a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.10, 3.06, 3.09, 4.10, 4.15 and 9.05 hereof). (3) The Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. (4) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. (5) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period of 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under Section 3.02 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part or (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date. (6) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary. (7) The Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof. (8) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.06 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile. Section 2.07 Replacement Notes. If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, the Company shall issue and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. The Company may charge for its expenses in replacing a Note. Every replacement Note is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Notes duly issued hereunder. Section 2.08 Outstanding Notes. The Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Note effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note. If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser. If the principal amount of any Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue. If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Notes shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding and shall cease to accrue interest. Section 2.09 Treasury Notes. In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, shall be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Section 2.10 Temporary Notes. Until certificates representing Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of certificated Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes and as shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes. Holders of temporary Notes shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture. Section 2.11 Cancellation. The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall return such canceled Notes to the Company. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that it has paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. Section 2.12 Defaulted Interest. If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment. The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, provided that no such special record date shall be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) shall mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid. Section 2.13 CUSIP Number. The Company in issuing the Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or the omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. ARTICLE 3. REDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENT Section 3.01 Notice to Trustee. If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to the redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof, it shall furnish to the Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers' Certificate setting forth (i) the clause of this Indenture pursuant to which the redemption shall occur, (ii) the redemption date, (iii) the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed, (iv) the redemption price and (v) the CUSIP numbers of the Notes to be redeemed. Section 3.02 Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed or purchased among the Holders of the Notes (a) in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes are listed or, (b) if the Notes are not so listed, on a pro rata basis, by lot or in accordance with any other method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate. In the event of partial redemption by lot, the particular Notes to be redeemed shall be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Trustee from the outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. Notes and portions of Notes selected shall be in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000; except that if all of the Notes of a Holder are to be redeemed, the entire outstanding amount of Notes held by such Holder, even if not a multiple of $1,000, shall be redeemed. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption. Section 3.03 Notice of Redemption. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.09 hereof and pursuant to a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed, including the CUSIP numbers, and shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the redemption price; (3) if any Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion shall be issued in the name of the Holder of such Notes upon cancellation of the original Note; (4) the name and address of the Paying Agent; (5) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price; (6) that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date; (7) the paragraph of the Notes and/or Section of this Indenture pursuant to which the Notes called for redemption are being redeemed; and (8) that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Notes. At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense; provided, however, that the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph. Section 3.04 Effect of Notice of Redemption. Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional. Section 3.05 Deposit of Redemption Price. One Business Day prior to the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Notes to be redeemed on that date. The Trustee or the Paying Agent shall promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, all Notes to be redeemed. If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or the portions of Notes called for redemption. If a Note is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. Section 3.06 Notes Redeemed in Part. Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall issue and, upon the Company's written request, the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Company a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered. No Notes of $1,000 or less can be redeemed in part. Section 3.07 Optional Redemption. At any time prior to December 15, 2005, the Company may, on any one or more occasions, redeem, in whole or in part, up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, including Additional Notes, if any, issued under this Indenture at a redemption price of 106.875% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, thereon to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings; provided, that: (1) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, including Additional Notes, if any, issued under this Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption, excluding Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries; and (2) the redemption occurs within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering. Except pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Notes will not be redeemable at the Company's option prior to December 15, 2007. On or after December 15, 2007, the Company, at its option, may redeem all or a part of the Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices, expressed as percentages of principal amount, set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes redeemed, to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on December 15 of the years indicated below: Year Percentage 2007................................................................103.438% 2008................................................................102.292% 2009................................................................101.146% 2010 and thereafter................................................ 100.000% Section 3.08 Mandatory Redemption. Other than as specifically provided in Sections 3.09, 4.10 or 4.15 hereof, the Company shall not be required to make any mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. Section 3.09 Offer to Purchase by Application of Excess Proceeds. In the event that, pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof, the Company shall be required to commence an Asset Sale Offer, it shall follow the procedures specified below. The Asset Sale Offer shall remain open for a period of 20 Business Days following its commencement and no longer, except to the extent that a longer period is required by applicable law (the "Offer Period"). No later than five Business Days after the termination of the Offer Period (the "Purchase Date"), the Company shall purchase the principal amount of Notes and such other pari passu Indebtedness required to be purchased pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof (the "Offer Amount") or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and such other pari passu Indebtedness tendered in response to the Asset Sale Offer. Payment for any Notes so purchased shall be made in the same manner as interest payments are made. If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer. Upon the commencement of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to the Trustee and each of the Holders. The notice shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable such Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer. The Asset Sale Offer shall be made to all Holders and all holders of other Indebtedness that is pari passu with the Notes containing similar provisions to those set forth in this Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets. The notice, which shall govern the terms of the Asset Sale Offer, shall state: (1) that the Asset Sale Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 3.09 and Section 4.10 hereof and the length of time the Asset Sale Offer shall remain open; (2) the Offer Amount, the purchase price and the Purchase Date; (3) that any Note not tendered or accepted for payment shall continue to accrue interest; (4) that, unless the Company defaults in making such payment, any Note accepted for payment pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Purchase Date; (5) that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer may only elect to have all of such Note purchased and may not elect to have only a portion of such Note purchased; (6) that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to any Asset Sale Offer shall be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Company, a depositary, if appointed by the Company, or a Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice at least three days before the Purchase Date; (7) that Holders shall be entitled to withdraw their election if the Company, the depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, receives, not later than the expiration of the Offer Period, a telegram, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Note the Holder delivered for purchase and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Note purchased; (8) that, if the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other pari passu Indebtedness surrendered by Holders exceeds the Offer Amount, the Company shall select the Notes and other pari passu Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis based on the principal amount of Notes and other pari passu Indebtedness surrendered (with such adjustments as may be deemed appropriate by the Company so that only Notes in denominations of $1,000, or integral multiples thereof, shall be purchased); and (9) that Holders whose Notes were purchased only in part shall be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered (or transferred by book-entry transfer). On or before the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, accept for payment, on a pro rata basis to the extent necessary, the Offer Amount of Notes or portions thereof tendered pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered, and shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.09. The Company, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than five days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price of the Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Note, and the Trustee, upon written request from the Company shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note to such Holder, in a principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered. Any Note not so accepted shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date. Other than as specifically provided in this Section 3.09, any purchase pursuant to this Section 3.09 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06 hereof. Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the amount of Excess Proceeds shall be reset at zero. ARTICLE 4. COVENANTS Section 4.01 Payment of Notes. The Company or a Guarantor shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, then due. The Company shall pay all Liquidated Damages, if any, in the same manner on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. The Company or a Guarantor shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful. Section 4.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Company shall maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Administration Office of the Trustee. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.03. Section 4.03 Reports. (a) Whether or not the Company is required by the SEC, so long as any Notes are outstanding, the Company shall furnish to the Holders of Notes within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations: (1) all quarterly and annual financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the SEC on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file such Forms, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and, with respect to the annual information only, a report on the annual financial statements by the Company's independent public accountants (which shall be firm(s) of established national reputation); and (2) all current reports that would be required to be filed with the SEC on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports. In addition, whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company shall file a copy of all such information and reports referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above with the SEC for public availability within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations, unless the SEC will not accept such a filing, and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request. The Company shall at all times comply with TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). (b) For so long as any Notes remain outstanding, the Company and the Guarantors shall furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. Section 4.04 Compliance Certificate. (a) The Company and each Guarantor (to the extent that such Guarantor is so required under the TIA) shall deliver to the Trustee, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. (b) So long as not contrary to the then current recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the year-end financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.03(a) above shall be accompanied by a written statement of the Company's independent public accountants (who shall be a firm of established national reputation) that in making the examination necessary for certification of such financial statements, nothing has come to their attention that would lead them to believe that the Company has violated any provisions of Article 4 or Article 5 hereof or, if any such violation has occurred, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof, it being understood that such accountants shall not be liable directly or indirectly to any Person for any failure to obtain knowledge of any such violation. (c) The Company shall, so long as any of the Notes are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible, but in no event later than five days after any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. Section 4.05 Taxes. The Company shall pay, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes. Section 4.06 Stay, Extension and Usury Laws. The Company and each of the Guarantors covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company and each of the Guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted. Section 4.07 Restricted Payments. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly: (i) declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of the Company's Equity Interests, including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company, or to the direct or indirect holders of the Company's Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends or distributions payable in Equity Interests, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company); (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value, including, without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company, any Equity Interests of the Company; (iii) make any payment on or with respect to, or purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value any Indebtedness that is subordinated to the Notes or the Guarantees, except a payment of interest or principal at Stated Maturity of such Indebtedness; or (iv) make any Restricted Investment; (all such payments and other actions set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) above being collectively referred to as "Restricted Payments"), unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment: (a) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence of such Restricted Payment; and (b) the Company would, at the time of such Restricted Payment and after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such Restricted Payment had been made at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, have been permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof; and (c) such Restricted Payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other Restricted Payments made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after August 10, 1998, excluding Restricted Payments permitted by clauses (ii), (iii), (iv) and (vi) of the next succeeding paragraph, is less than the sum, without duplication, of: (i) 50% of the Consolidated Net Income of the Company for the period (taken as one accounting period) from the beginning of the first fiscal quarter commencing August 10, 1998 to the end of the Company's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available at the time of such Restricted Payment, or, if such Consolidated Net Income for such period is a deficit, less 100% of such deficit, plus (ii) 100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds or the fair market value of property other than cash received by the Company since August 10, 1998 as a contribution to its common equity capital or from the issue or sale of Equity Interests of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock), or from the issue or sale of Disqualified Stock or debt securities of the Company that have been converted into or exchanged for such Equity Interests, other than Equity Interests, Disqualified Stock or debt securities sold to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, plus (iii) to the extent not already included in Consolidated Net Income of the Company for such period and without duplication, any Restricted Investment that was made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after August 10, 1998 is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, or any Unrestricted Subsidiary which is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary subsequent to August 10, 1998 is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, 100% of the cash return of capital with respect to such Restricted Investment or Unrestricted Subsidiary, less the cost of disposition, if any and 50% of the excess of the fair market value of the Company's Investment in such Unrestricted Subsidiary as of the date of such redesignation over the amount of the Restricted Investment that reduced this clause (c); provided, that any amounts that increase this clause (c) shall not duplicatively increase amounts available as Permitted Investments. The foregoing provisions shall not prohibit: (i) the payment of any dividend within 60 days after the date of declaration of the dividend, if at the date of declaration the dividend payment would have complied with the provisions of this Indenture; (ii) the making of any Restricted Investment or the redemption, repurchase, retirement, defeasance or other acquisition of any subordinated Indebtedness of the Company or of any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or any Equity Interests of the Company in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale, other than to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, of Equity Interests of the Company, other than Disqualified Stock; provided that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are utilized for any such redemption, repurchase, retirement, defeasance or other acquisition shall be excluded from clause (c) (ii) of the preceding paragraph; (iii) the payment, purchase, defeasance, retirement redemption, repurchase or other acquisition (a) of subordinated Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with the net cash proceeds from an incurrence of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness or (b) of any Disqualified Stock of the Company in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale of, Disqualified Stock of the Company that is not prohibited by the terms of this Indenture to be issued; (iv) the payment of dividends on the Company's Common Stock of up to a combined amount of $30.0 million per annum; provided that up to $10.0 million of such amount that is not utilized by the Company to pay dividends in any calendar year may be carried forward to any subsequent year; (v) (a) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Equity Interests of the Company that are held by any member of the Company's, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries', management pursuant to any management equity subscription agreement or stock option agreement or (b) the repurchase of Equity Interests of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company held by employee benefits plans, whether directly or for employees, directors or former directors, pursuant to the terms of agreements, other than management equity subscription agreements or stock option agreements, approved by the Company's Board of Directors; provided that, in the case of foregoing clause (a) the aggregate price paid for all such repurchased, redeemed, acquired or retired Equity Interests shall not exceed $25.0 million in the aggregate since the date of this Indenture and, in the case of foregoing clause (b), the aggregate purchase price paid for all such repurchased Equity Interests shall not exceed $15.0 million in any twelve-month period; (vi) repurchases of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon exercise of stock options if such Equity Interests represent a portion of the exercise price of such options; (vii) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of the Existing Subordinated Notes pursuant to the provisions described under Section 3.07, 4.10 or 4.15 of the Existing Subordinated Notes Indenture; (viii) the distribution, as a dividend or otherwise, of shares of Capital Stock of, or Indebtedness owed to Ball or a Restricted Subsidiary of Ball by, Unrestricted Subsidiaries; and (ix) other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount since the date of this Indenture not to exceed $100.0 million under this clause (ix); provided that, with respect to clauses (iv), (vii) and (ix) above, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing immediately after such transaction or as a consequence thereof. The amount of all Restricted Payments, other than cash, shall be the fair market value on the date of the Restricted Payment of the assets or securities proposed to be transferred or issued by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, pursuant to the Restricted Payment. The fair market value of any assets or securities that are required to be valued by this Section 4.07 shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company whose resolution with respect thereto shall be delivered to the Trustee. If any Restricted Investment is sold or otherwise liquidated or repaid or any dividend or payment is received by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and such amounts may be credited to clause (c) above, then such amounts shall be credited only to the extent of amounts not otherwise included in Consolidated Net Income and that do not otherwise increase the amount available as a Permitted Investment. Section 4.08 Dividends and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or permit to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to: (a) pay dividends or make any other distributions on its Capital Stock to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or with respect to any other interest or participation in, or measured by, its profits, or pay any Indebtedness owed to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; (b) make loans or advances to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; or (c) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries. However, the preceding restrictions do not apply to such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (a) agreements governing Existing Indebtedness as in effect on the date of this Indenture; (b) other encumbrances and restrictions in effect on the date of this Indenture; (c) any Credit Facilities, including the New Credit Facilities, as in effect on the date of this Indenture, and any extensions, amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof and other Credit Facilities not prohibited under this Indenture, provided that such extensions, amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings and other Credit Facilities are not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, with respect to such dividend and other payment restrictions than those contained in the New Credit Facilities as in effect on the date of this Indenture; (d) the several indentures governing the Notes and the Existing Notes, the Notes, the Existing Notes and the related subsidiary guarantees; (e) applicable law or any applicable rule, regulation or order; (f) existing with respect to any Person or the property or assets of such person acquired by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries as in effect at the time of such acquisition, and not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition, which encumbrance or restriction is not applicable to any Person, or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person, or the property or assets of the Person, so acquired, provided, that in the case of Indebtedness, such Indebtedness was permitted by the terms of this Indenture to be incurred; (g) customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business; (h) purchase money obligations for property acquired in the ordinary course of business that impose restrictions on that property of the nature described in clause (c) of the preceding paragraph; (i) Indebtedness of Restricted Subsidiaries; provided that such Indebtedness was not prohibited under this Indenture; (j) Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; provided that the restrictions contained in the agreements governing such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness are not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those contained in the agreements governing the Indebtedness being refinanced; (k) Liens securing Indebtedness otherwise permitted to be incurred under the provisions of Section 4.12 hereof that limit the right of the debtor to dispose of the assets subject to such Liens; (l) provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property in joint venture agreements, asset sale agreements, stock sale agreements and other similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business; (m) any Purchase Money Note, or other Indebtedness or other contractual requirements of a Securitization Entity in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; provided that such restrictions may apply only to such Securitization Entity; (n) any restriction with respect to a Restricted Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement entered into for the sale or disposition of all or substantially all the Capital Stock or assets of such Restricted Subsidiary pending the closing of such sale or disposition; (o) restrictions on cash or other deposits or net worth imposed by customers under contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business; and (p) any encumbrance or restriction of the type referred to in clauses (a) through (c) of the first paragraph of this Section 4.08 imposed by any extension, amendment, modification, restatement, renewal, increase, supplement, refunding, replacement or refinancing of an agreement, contract, instrument or obligation referred to in clauses (a) through (o) above that is not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, than the encumbrance or restriction imposed by the applicable predecessor agreement, contract, instrument or obligation. Section 4.09 Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Disqualified and Preferred Stock. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable, contingently or otherwise, with respect to (collectively, "incur") any Indebtedness, including Acquired Debt, and the Company shall not issue any Disqualified Stock and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; provided, however, that the Company may incur Indebtedness, including Acquired Debt, or issue shares of Disqualified Stock and any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries may incur Indebtedness if the Company's Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company's most recently ended four full fiscal quarters for which internal financial statements are available immediately preceding the date on which such additional Indebtedness is incurred or such Disqualified Stock is issued would have been at least 2.0 to 1, determined on a pro forma basis, including a pro forma application of the net proceeds therefrom, as if the additional Indebtedness had been incurred, or the Disqualified Stock had been issued, as the case may be, at the beginning of such four-quarter period. The provisions of the first paragraph of this Section 4.09 shall not prohibit the incurrence of any of the following items of Indebtedness or the issuance of preferred stock, as applicable (collectively, "Permitted Debt"): (i) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness under Credit Facilities in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding under this clause (i), with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder, not to exceed $1,350 million less the aggregate amount of all Net Proceeds of Asset Sales applied by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries since the date of this Indenture to repay any term Indebtedness under any Credit Facility or to repay any revolving credit Indebtedness under any Credit Facility and effect a corresponding commitment reduction thereunder pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof; (ii) the incurrence by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries of the Existing Indebtedness; (iii) the incurrence by the Company and the Guarantors of Indebtedness represented by the Notes and the Guarantees to be issued on the date of this Indenture and the Series B Notes and the Guarantees to be issued pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement; (iv) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness represented by Capital Lease Obligations, mortgage financings or purchase money obligations, in each case, incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of construction or improvement of property, plant or equipment used in the business of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, in an aggregate principal amount, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (iv), not to exceed 7.5% of Total Assets at any time outstanding; (v) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; (vi) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of intercompany Indebtedness between or among the Company and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; provided, however, that (i) if the Company or any Guarantor is the obligor on such Indebtedness, such Indebtedness must be expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full in cash of all Obligations with respect to the Notes, in the case of the Company, or any such Guarantor's Guarantee, in the case of a Guarantor; and (ii) (a) any subsequent issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such Indebtedness being held by a Person other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and (b) any sale or other transfer of any such Indebtedness to a Person that is not either the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed, in each case, to constitute an incurrence of such Indebtedness by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, that was not permitted by this clause (vi); (vii) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Hedging Obligations that are incurred in the normal course of business and not for speculative purposes; (viii) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness in the ordinary course of business solely in respect of performance, surety, appeal and similar bonds, completion or performance guarantees or standby letters of credit issued for the purpose of supporting workers' compensation liabilities of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, to the extent that such incurrence does not result in the incurrence of any obligation for the payment of borrowed money to others; (ix) the incurrence of Indebtedness arising from agreements of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price or similar obligations, in each case, incurred or assumed in connection with the disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary; (x) the incurrence by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of Indebtedness in connection with and in contemplation of, the concurrent disposition of such Restricted Subsidiary to the stockholders of the Company; provided that such disposition occurs concurrently with such incurrence and following such disposition, neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any liability with respect to such Indebtedness; (xi) the incurrence by a Securitization Entity of Indebtedness in a Qualified Securitization Transaction that is Non-Recourse Debt with respect to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than Securitization Entities), except for Standard Securitization Undertakings and Limited Originator Recourse; (xii) the guarantee by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that was permitted to be incurred by another provision of this Section 4.09; (xiii) Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary owed to, including obligations in respect of letters of credit for the benefit of, any Person in connection with workers' compensation, health, disability or other employee benefits or property, casualty or liability insurance provided by such Person to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, pursuant to reimbursement or indemnification obligations to such Person, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business; (xiv) Indebtedness arising from the honoring by a bank or other financial institution of a check, draft or similar instrument drawn against insufficient funds in the ordinary course of business, provided that such Indebtedness is extinguished within two business days of its incurrence; (xv) the issuance of shares of preferred stock by a Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary; provided that any subsequent issuance or transfer of any Capital Stock or any other event which results in any such Restricted Subsidiary ceasing to be a Restricted Subsidiary or any other subsequent transfer of any such shares of preferred stock (except to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary) shall be deemed in each case to be an issuance of such shares of preferred stock that was not permitted by this clause (xv); and (xvi) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount, or accreted value, as applicable, at any time outstanding, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace any Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (xvi), not to exceed $150 million. The Company shall not incur any Indebtedness (including Permitted Debt) that is contractually subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company unless such Indebtedness is also contractually subordinated in right of payment to the Notes on substantially identical terms; provided, however, that no Indebtedness of the Company shall be deemed to be contractually subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company solely by virtue of being unsecured. For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.09, in the event that an item of proposed Indebtedness meets the criteria of more than one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in clauses (i) through (xvi) above, or is entitled to be incurred pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 4.09, the Company, in its sole discretion, shall be permitted to classify such item of Indebtedness on of the date of its incurrence, or later reclassify such item of Indebtedness, in any manner that complies with this Section 4.09 and such item of Indebtedness shall be treated as having been incurred pursuant to only one of such clauses or pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 4.09. The accrual of interest, the accretion or amortization of original issue discount, the payment of interest on any Indebtedness in the form of additional Indebtedness with the same terms, and the payment of dividends on Disqualified Stock in the form of additional shares of the same class of Disqualified Stock shall not be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness or an issuance of Disqualified Stock for purposes of this Section 4.09. Indebtedness includes the Guarantee by the specified Person of (i) any Indebtedness of any other Person or (ii) any liability of any other Person, whether or not contingent and whether or not it appears on the balance sheet of such Person, but only to the extent not otherwise included in determining compliance with this Section 4.09. Section 4.10 Asset Sales. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless: (i) the Company or the Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, receives consideration at the time of the Asset Sale at least equal to the fair market value of the assets or Equity Interests issued or sold or otherwise disposed of; (ii) the fair market value is determined by the Company's Board of Directors and evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee with respect to any Asset Sale determined to have a fair market value greater than $25 million; and (iii) at least 75% of the consideration received in the Asset Sale by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash or Cash Equivalents. For purposes of this provision, each of the following shall be deemed to be cash: (w) any liabilities, as shown on the Company's or such Restricted Subsidiary's most recent consolidated balance sheet, of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, other than contingent liabilities and liabilities that are by their terms subordinated to the Notes or any Guarantee thereof, that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets pursuant to a customary novation agreement that releases the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary from further liability; (x) any securities, notes or other obligations received by the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary from such transferee that are converted by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary into cash within 180 days after the consummation of such Asset Sale, to the extent of the cash received in that conversion; (y) any Designated Noncash Consideration received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in such Asset Sale; provided that the aggregate fair market value, as determined above, of such Designated Noncash Consideration, taken together with the fair market value at the time of receipt of all other Designated Noncash Consideration received pursuant to this clause (y) less the amount of Net Proceeds previously realized in cash from prior Designated Noncash Consideration is less than 7.5% of Total Assets at the time of the receipt of such Designated Noncash Consideration, with the fair market value of each item of Designated Noncash Consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value; and (z) Additional Assets received in an exchange-of-assets transaction; provided, that this clause (iii) shall not be applicable to any sale or other disposition of all or a portion of the business constituting the aerospace and technologies segment of the Company. Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Company may, at its option and to the extent the Company elects, apply those Net Proceeds: (a) to repay Indebtedness and other Obligations under any Credit Facility, and, if the Indebtedness repaid is revolving credit Indebtedness, to correspondingly permanently reduce commitments with respect thereto; (b) to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or a majority of the Voting Stock of, another Permitted Businesses; (c) to make a capital expenditure in a Permitted Business; (d) to acquire other long-term assets in a Permitted Business; or (e) to make an Investment in Additional Assets; provided, that the Company shall be deemed to have complied with this clause (e) if, within 365 days of such Asset Sale, the Company shall have entered into a definitive agreement covering such Investment which is thereafter completed within 365 days after the first anniversary of such Asset Sale. Pending the final application of any Net Proceeds, the Company may temporarily reduce Indebtedness or otherwise invest the Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by this Indenture. Any Net Proceeds from Asset Sales that are not applied or invested as provided in the second preceding paragraph shall constitute "Excess Proceeds." When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20.0 million, the Company shall make an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is pari passu with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (an "Asset Sale Offer") to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other pari passu Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds. The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer shall be equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the date of purchase, and shall be payable in cash. If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company may use those Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other pari passu Indebtedness tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee shall select the Notes and such other pari passu Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the amount of Excess Proceeds shall be reset at zero. Section 4.11 Transactions With Affiliates. (a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate (each of the foregoing, an "Affiliate Transaction"), unless (1) such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to the Company or the relevant Restricted Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary with an unrelated Person; and (2) the Company delivers to the Trustee: (A) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $10 million, a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company set forth in an Officers' Certificate certifying that such Affiliate Transaction complies with clause (1) above and that such Affiliate Transaction has been approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors of the Company; and (B) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $50 million, an opinion as to the fairness to the Company of such Affiliate Transaction from a financial point of view issued by an accounting, appraisal or investment banking firm of national standing. (b) The following items shall not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and, therefore, shall not be subject to the provisions of Section 4.11(a) hereof: (1) any employment, severance or termination agreement entered into by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business; (2) transactions between or among the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries; (3) transactions between or among the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries with Ball Asia Pacific and Permitted Joint Ventures on terms that are no less favorable to the Company and/or such Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company and/or such Subsidiary with an unrelated Person; (4) any sale or other issuance of Equity Interests, other than Disqualified Stock, to Affiliates of the Company; (5) Restricted Payments that are permitted by and Investments that are not prohibited by Section 4.07 hereof; (6) advances to employees for moving, entertainment and travel expenses, drawing accounts and similar expenditures in the ordinary course of business; (7) fees and compensation paid to, and indemnity provided on behalf of, officers, directors or employees of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company or of any such Restricted Subsidiary, to the extent such fees and compensation are reasonable and customary; (8) transactions effected as part of a Qualified Securitization Transaction; (9) the grant of stock options or similar rights to officers, employees, consultants and directors of the Company and, to the extent otherwise permitted under this Indenture, to any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to plans approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and issuance of securities pursuant thereto; and (10) transactions pursuant to any arrangement, contract or agreement in existence on the date of this Indenture, as such arrangement may be amended or restated, renewed, extended, refinanced, refunded or replaced from time to time, provided that any such amendment or restatement, renewal, extension, refinancing, refund or replacement is on terms and conditions not materially less favorable to the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole than the arrangement, contract or agreement in existence on the date of this Indenture. Section 4.12 Liens. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien of any kind securing Indebtedness, Attributable Debt, or trade payables, other than Permitted Liens, upon any of their property or assets, now owned or hereafter acquired, unless all payments due under this Indenture and the Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligations so secured until such time as such obligations are no longer secured by a Lien. Section 4.13 Business Activities. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, engage in any business other than Permitted Businesses, except to such extent as would not be material to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole. Section 4.14 Corporate Existence. Subject to Articles 5 and 10 hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect (i) its corporate existence, and the corporate, partnership or other existence of each of its Restricted Subsidiaries and any Unrestricted Subsidiary with $20 million of net sales in the most recent twelve month period or assets of $20 million, in accordance with the respective organizational documents (as the same may be amended from time to time) of the Company, any Restricted Subsidiary or any Unrestricted Subsidiary with $20 million of net sales in the most recent twelve month period or assets of $20 million and (ii) the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company, its Restricted Subsidiaries and any Unrestricted Subsidiary with $20 million of net sales in the most recent twelve month period or assets of $20 million; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise, or the corporate, partnership or other existence of any of its Subsidiaries, if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes. Section 4.15 Offer to Purchase Upon Change of Control. (a) If a Change of Control occurs, and the Company does not redeem the Notes as described in Section 3.07 hereof within 60 days after the Change of Control, each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000, of that Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer") at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Notes on the date specified in such notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by this Indenture and described in such notice. The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of this Indenture by virtue of such conflict. (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (1) accept for payment all Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered; and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of the Notes being purchased by the Company. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; provided that each new Note shall be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date. The provisions described above that require the Company to make a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control shall be applicable whether or not any other provisions of this Indenture are applicable. Except as described above with respect to a Change of Control, this Indenture does not contain provisions that permit the Holders of the Notes to require that the Company repurchase or redeem the Notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.15, the Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer. Section 4.16 Additional Guarantees. If the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries acquires or creates another Domestic Subsidiary after the date of this Indenture, then that newly acquired or created Domestic Subsidiary shall become a Guarantor and execute and deliver a supplemental indenture to the Trustee in the form of Exhibit F within 20 business days of the date on which it was acquired or created; provided, that this Section 4.16 does not apply to any Subsidiary that has properly been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with this Indenture for so long as it continues to constitute an Unrestricted Subsidiary or to any Excluded Subsidiary for so long as it continues to constitute an Excluded Subsidiary. Section 4.17 Payment for Consents. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration to or for the benefit of any Holder of Notes for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid and is paid to all Holders of the Notes that consent, waive or agree to amend in the time frame set forth in the solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement. Section 4.18 Sale and Leaseback Transactions. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; provided that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may enter into a sale and leaseback transaction if: (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as applicable, could have incurred Indebtedness in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt relating to such sale and leaseback transaction pursuant to Section 4.09 hereof; (ii) the gross cash proceeds of such sale and leaseback transaction are at least equal to the fair market value, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, of the property that is the subject of that sale and leaseback transaction; and (iii) the transfer of assets in that sale and leaseback transaction is permitted by, and the Company applies the proceeds of such transaction in compliance with, Section 4.10 hereof. Section 4.19 No Amendment to Subordination Provisions. The Company shall not amend, modify or alter the Existing Subordinated Note Indenture in any way to amend the provisions of Article 10 of the Existing Subordinated Note Indenture (which relate to subordination). Section 4.20 Designation of Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries. The Board of Directors may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if that designation would not cause a Default. If a Restricted Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, the aggregate fair market value of all outstanding Investments owned by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the Subsidiary properly designated shall be deemed to be an Investment made as of the time of the designation and shall reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under the first paragraph of Section 4.07 hereof or Permitted Investments, as determined by the Company. That designation shall only be permitted if the Investment would be permitted at that time and if the Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary. The Board of Directors may at any time redesignate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary if the redesignation would not cause a Default. Section 4.21 Certain Covenants to Be Suspended Under Certain Conditions. The covenants set forth in Section 4.01 through Section 4.20, inclusive, of this Indenture shall be applicable to the Company (and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries, as appropriate) except that during any period of time that (i) the ratings assigned to the Notes by both Standard & Poor's Ratings Group ("S&P") and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's" and, together with S&P, the "Rating Agencies") are equal to or higher than BBB- and Baa3, or the equivalents thereof, respectively (the "Investment Grade Ratings"), and (ii) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then beginning on that day and continuing at all times thereafter regardless of any subsequent changes in the rating of the Notes, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall not be subject to the provisions of this Indenture described in Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.20 and clause (iv) of Section 5.01, (collectively, the "Suspended Covenants"). ARTICLE 5. SUCCESSORS Section 5.01 Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets. The Company shall not, directly or indirectly: (1) consolidate or merge with or into another person, whether or not the Company is the surviving corporation, or (2) sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to another Person unless: (i) either: (a) the Company is the surviving corporation; or (b) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made is a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia; (ii) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Notes and this Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee; (iii) immediately after such transaction no Default or Event of Default exists; and (iv) either: (a) except in the case of a merger of the Company with or into a Subsidiary, the Company or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made will on the date of such transaction after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof or (b) the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made would, immediately after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, not be less than such Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries immediately prior to such transaction, provided, however, that clause (iv) above does not apply if, in the good faith determination of the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be evidenced by a board resolution, the purpose of such transactions is to change the state of incorporation of the Company. The Company may not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person. The provisions of this Section 5.01 shall not apply to a sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. Section 5.02 Successor Corporation Substituted. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 hereof, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the "Company" shall refer instead to the successor corporation and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; provided, however, that the predecessor Company shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Company's assets that meets the requirements of Section 5.01 hereof. ARTICLE 6. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES Section 6.01 Events of Default. An "Event of Default" occurs if: (a) the Company defaults for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Notes; (b) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes; (c) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Section 5.01 hereof; (d) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 30 days after notice to comply with the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 hereof; (e) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 60 days after notice to comply with any of the other agreements in this Indenture or the Notes; (f) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) defaults under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Indenture, if that default: (1) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness on or before the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "Payment Default"); or (2) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity, and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $50 million or more or its foreign currency equivalent; (g) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $50 million or its foreign currency equivalent, excluding amounts covered by insurance, which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (h) the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case, (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (iii) consents to the appointment of a custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (v) generally is not paying its debts as they become due; or (i) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (i) is for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case; (ii) appoints a custodian of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary or for all or substantially all of the property of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; or (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days; or (j) except as permitted by this Indenture, any Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under its Guarantee. Section 6.02 Acceleration. If any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (h) or (i) of Section 6.01 hereof) with respect to the Company, any Significant Subsidiary that is a Restricted Subsidiary, as applicable, or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Upon any such declaration, the Notes shall become due and payable immediately. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in clause (h) or (i) of Section 6.01 hereof occurs with respect to the Company, any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all outstanding Notes shall be due and payable without further action or notice. Holders of the Notes may not enforce this Indenture or the Notes except as provided in this Indenture. In the case of any Event of Default occurring by reason of any willful action (or inaction) taken (or not taken) by or on behalf of the Company with the intention of avoiding payment of the premium that the Company would have had to pay if the Company then had elected to redeem the Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of this Indenture, an equivalent premium shall also become and be immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with this Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. Section 6.03 Other Remedies. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law. Section 6.04 Waiver of Past Defaults. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under this Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or Liquidated Damages on, or the principal of, the Notes (including in connection with an offer to purchase); provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration. Upon any such waiver, such Default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Section 6.05 Control by Majority. Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Notes or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability. Section 6.06 Limitation on Suits. A Holder of a Note may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes only if: (a) the Holder of a Note gives to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default; (b) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy; (c) such Holder of a Note or Holders of Notes offer and, if requested, provide to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense; (d) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer and, if requested, the provision of indemnity; and (e) during such 60-day period the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request. A Holder of a Note may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Note. Section 6.07 Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder. Section 6.08 Collection Suit by Trustee. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as Trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on the Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel. Section 6.09 Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. Section 6.10 Priorities. If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following order: First: to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection; Second: to Holders of Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any and interest, respectively; and Third: to the Company. The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10. Section 6.11 Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes. ARTICLE 7. TRUSTEE Section 7.01 Duties of Trustee. (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default: (i) the duties of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates of opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section; (ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof. (d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) of this Section and Section 7.02. (e) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder shall have offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. (f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Section 7.02 Rights of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document. (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon. (c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care. (d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture. (e) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company or any Guarantor shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company or Guarantor issuing such demand, request or notice. (f) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction. (g) Whenever in the administration of this Indenture, the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate. (h) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a Default or Event of Default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture. (i) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder. (j) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded. Section 7.03 Individual Rights of Trustee. The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. However, in the event the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the SEC for permission to continue as Trustee or resign. Any Agent may exercise the same rights, with the same duties, as the Trustee under this Section 7.03. The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof. Section 7.04 Trustee's Disclaimer. The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision of this Indenture, it shall not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, and it shall not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Notes or pursuant to this Indenture other than its certificate of authentication. Section 7.05 Notice of Defaults. If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to Holders of Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal of or interest on, or Liquidated Damages on, any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice from Holders of the Notes if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes. Section 7.06 Reports by Trustee to Holders of the Notes. Within 60 days after each August 1 beginning with the August 1 following the date of this Indenture, and for so long as Notes remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to the Holders of the Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA Section 313(a) (but if no event described in TIA Section 313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b)(2). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA Section 313(c). A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Notes shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed in accordance with TIA Section 313(d). The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom. Section 7.07 Compensation and Indemnity. The Company and the Guarantors shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation as agreed upon in writing for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a Trustee of an express trust. The Company and the Guarantors shall reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel. The Company and the Guarantors shall indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (including taxes other than taxes based upon the income of the Trustee) incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture against the Company and the Guarantors (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company and the Guarantors or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company and the Guarantors of its obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The obligations of the Company and the Guarantors under this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. To secure the Company's and the Guarantors' payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Notes. Such Lien shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or (h) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law. The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 313(b)(2) to the extent applicable. Section 7.08 Replacement of Trustee. A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section. The Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company. The Holders of Notes of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company may remove the Trustee if: (a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof; (b) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law; (c) a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or (d) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting. If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of Notes of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder of a Note who has been a Holder of a Note for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder of a Note may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee. A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders of the Notes. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, provided all sums owing to the Trustee (including its agents and/or counsel) hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 hereof shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee. Section 7.09 Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc. If the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee. Section 7.10 Eligibility; Disqualification. There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate Trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $100 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. This Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA Section 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 310(b). Section 7.11 Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company. The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. Section 7.12 Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company. Any application by the Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Trustee under this Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by, or omission of, the Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to the taking of such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted. ARTICLE 8. LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE Section 8.01 Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8. Section 8.02 Legal Defeasance and Discharge. Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company and the Guarantors shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes and to have each Guarantor's obligation discharged with respect to its Guarantee on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "Legal Defeasance"). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Notes, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Notes and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Notes to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.04 hereof, and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, interest on and Liquidated Damages, if any, on such Notes when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to the Notes under Article 2 and Section 4.02 hereof, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's and the Guarantors' obligations in connection therewith and (d) this Article 8. Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof. Section 8.03 Covenant Defeasance. Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company and each Restricted Subsidiary shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from their obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 3.09, 4.03, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17 and 4.20 and clause (iv) of Section 5.01 hereof with respect to the outstanding Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "Covenant Defeasance"), and the Notes shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes, the Company, each Guarantor and each Restricted Subsidiary may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(d) through 6.01(f) hereof shall not constitute Events of Default. Section 8.04 Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance. The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof to the outstanding Notes: In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance: (a) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in United States dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, interest and premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the outstanding Notes on the stated maturity or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Notes are being defeased to maturity or to a particular redemption date; (b) in the case of an election under Section 8.02 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable U.S. federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred; (c) in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred; (d) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit, other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the incurrence of Indebtedness all or a portion of the proceeds of which will be used to defease the Notes pursuant to this Article 8 concurrently with such incurrence, or insofar as Sections 6.01(h) or 6.01(i) hereof is concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit; (e) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument, other than this Indenture, to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound; (f) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of the Notes over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others; and (g) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with. Section 8.05 Deposited Money and Government Securities to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions. Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Company and the Guarantors shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes. Anything in this Article 8 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(a) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. Section 8.06 Repayment to Company. Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the reasonable expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Company. Section 8.07 Reinstatement. If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; provided, however, that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent. ARTICLE 9. AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER Section 9.01 Without Consent of Holders of Notes. Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Indenture, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes without the consent of any Holder of a Note: (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; (b) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes; (c) to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to the Holders of the Notes in the case of merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; (d) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under this Indenture of any Holder of the Notes; (e) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA; (f) to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with the Indenture; (g) to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental indenture and/or a Guarantee with respect to the Notes; (h) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee; (i) to add guarantees with respect to the Notes; or (j) to secure the Notes. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee shall join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of any amended or supplemental Indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. Section 9.02 With Consent of Holders of Notes. Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture (including Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof), the Guarantees and the Notes with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding voting as a single class, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes, and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes. Section 2.08 hereof shall determine which Notes are considered to be "outstanding" for purposes of this Section 9.02. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental Indenture unless such amended or supplemental Indenture directly affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance of the proposed amendment or waiver. After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amended or supplemental Indenture or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding voting as a single class may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not, with respect to any Notes held by a non-consenting Holder: (a) reduce the principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; (b) reduce the principal of or change the fixed maturity of any Note or alter or waive any of the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Notes except as provided above with respect to Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof; (c) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest, including default interest, on any Note; (d) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes, except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration: (e) make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Notes; (f) make any change in the provisions of this Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of the Notes to receive payments of principal of or premium, interest or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes; (g) make any change in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions; or (h) release any Guarantor from any of its Obligations under its Guarantee or this Indenture, except in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Section 9.03 Compliance With Trust Indenture Act. Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes shall be set forth in a amended or supplemental Indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect. Section 9.04 Revocation and Effect of Consents. Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Note and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder of a Note or subsequent Holder of a Note may revoke the consent as to its Note if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the waiver, supplement or amendment becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder. Section 9.05 Notation on or Exchange of Notes. The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Note thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for all Notes may issue and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver. Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note shall not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver. Section 9.06 Trustee to Sign Amendments, Etc. The Trustee shall sign any amended, restated or supplemental Indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplemental Indenture until the Board of Directors approves it. In executing any amended, restated or supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04 hereof, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended, restated or supplemental Indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. ARTICLE 10. Note GUARANTEES Section 10.01 Guarantee. Subject to this Article 10, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (a) the principal of and interest on the Notes shall be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder shall be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same shall be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection. The Guarantors hereby agree that their obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and this Indenture. If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors or any custodian, Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. Each Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 hereof for the purposes of this Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Guarantee. The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Guarantee. Section 10.02 Limitation on Guarantor Liability. Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee and this Article 10 shall be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article 10, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. Section 10.03 Execution and Delivery of Guarantee. To evidence its Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such Guarantee substantially in the form included in Exhibit E shall be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and that this Indenture shall be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by an Officer. Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01 shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Guarantee. If an Officer whose signature is on this Indenture or on the Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note on which a Guarantee is endorsed, the Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless. The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Guarantee set forth in this Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors. In the event that the Company creates or acquires any new Subsidiaries subsequent to the date of this Indenture, if required by Section 4.16 hereof, the Company shall cause such Subsidiaries to execute supplemental Indentures to this Indenture and Guarantees in accordance with Section 4.16 hereof and this Article 10, to the extent applicable. Section 10.04 Guarantors May Consolidate, Etc. on Certain Terms. A Guarantor may not sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into, whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person, another Person other than the Company or another Guarantor, unless: (a) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (b) either: (1) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Guarantor or the Company, unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor under this Indenture, its Guarantee and the Registration Rights Agreement, pursuant to a supplemental Indenture in the form of Exhibit F hereto; or (2) the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture. In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental Indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in the form of Exhibit F to the Trustee, of the Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable hereunder. All the Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. Except as set forth in Articles 5 hereof, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor. Upon any such consolidation or merger of any Guarantor with or into another Guarantor or with or into the Company, the Guarantee of the Guarantor that does not survive shall no longer be of any force or effect. Section 10.05 Releases Following Sale of Assets. In the event of (a) any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, including by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, to a Person that is not, either before or after giving effect to such transaction, the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, if the sale or other disposition complies with Section 4.10 herein; (b) any sale or other disposition of all of the Capital Stock of a Guarantor, including by way of dividend of the Capital Stock of such Guarantor to the stockholders of the Company, to a Person that is not, either before or after giving effect to such transaction, the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company if the sale or other disposition complies with Section 4.10 herein, or (c) if the Company designates any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Guarantor to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with Section 4.20 of this Indenture, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) shall be released and relieved of any obligations under its Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof. Upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Guarantee. Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Indenture as provided in this Article 10. ARTICLE 11. SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE Section 11.01 Satisfaction and Discharge. This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to all Notes issued hereunder, when: (1) either: (a) all Notes that have been authenticated (except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or (b) all Notes that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Company or any Guarantor has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities, in such amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption; (2) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit or will occur as a result of such deposit and such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any Guarantor is a party or by which the Company or any Guarantor is bound; (3) the Company or any Guarantor has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it under this Indenture; and (4) the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of the Notes at maturity or the redemption date, as the case may be. In addition, the Company must deliver an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied. ARTICLE 12. MISCELLANEOUS Section 12.01 Trust Indenture Act Controls. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA Section 318(c), the imposed duties shall control. Section 12.02 Notices. Any notice or communication by the Company, any Guarantor or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address. If to the Company and/or any Guarantor: Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: Treasurer With a copy to: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Illinois) 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100 Chicago, Illinois 60606 Telecopier No.: (312) 407-0411 Attention: Brian W. Duwe If to the Trustee: The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8 West New York, NY 10286 Telecopier No.: (212) 815-5707 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration The Company, any Guarantor or the Trustee, by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery. Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail postage prepaid, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA Section 313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it. If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time. Section 12.03 Communication by Holders of Notes with Other Holders of Notes. Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c). Section 12.04 Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee: (a) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and (b) except with respect to the initial issuance of the Notes, an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 11.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied. Section 12.05 Statements Required in Certificate. Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA Section 314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 314(e) and shall include: (a) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (c) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied. Section 12.06 Rules by Trustee and Agents. The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions. Section 12.07 Calculation of Foreign Currency Amounts. The calculation of the U.S. dollar equivalent amount for any amount denominated in a foreign currency shall be the noon buying rate in the City of New York as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date on which such determination is required to be made or, if such day is not a day on which such rate is published, the rate most recently published prior to such day. Section 12.08 No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Notes, the Guarantees, this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes and the Guarantees. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws. Section 12.09 Governing Law. THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES AND THE GUARANTEES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. Section 12.10 No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements. This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture. Section 12.11 Successors. All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors. Section 12.12 Severability. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 12.13 Counterpart Originals. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. Section 12.14 Table of Contents, Headings, Etc. The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Indenture and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof. [Signatures on following page]
SIGNATURES Dated as of December 19, 2002 BALL CORPORATION By: /s/ David A. Westerlund ---------------------------------- Name: David A. Westerlund Title: Senior Vice President, Administration and Corporate Secretary BALL AEROSPACE & TECHNOLOGIES CORP. By: /s/ David A. Westerlund ---------------------------------- Name: David A. Westerlund Title: Vice President BALL METAL BEVERAGE CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ David A. Westerlund ---------------------------------- Name: David A. Westerlund Title: Vice President BALL METAL FOOD CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL METAL PACKAGING SALES CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison --------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PACKAGING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison --------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PLASTIC CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison --------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL TECHNOLOGIES HOLDING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison --------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BG HOLDINGS I, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BG HOLDINGS II, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer EFRATOM HOLDING, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer LATAS DE ALUMINIO BALL, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PAN-EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Charles E. Baker ------------------------------ Name: Charles E. Baker Title: Assistant Secretary THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee By: /s/ Van K. Brown ------------------------------ Name: Van K Brown Title: Vice President
EXHIBIT A (Face of Note) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ [Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture] [Insert the Private Placement Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture] [Insert the Regulation S Temporary Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture] CUSIP/CINS 058498AE6 6?% Senior Notes due 2012 No. ___ $_________ BALL CORPORATION promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________________________________________________ Dollars on December 15, 2012. Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15 Record Dates: June 1 and December 1 BALL CORPORATION By: --------------------------- Name: Title: This is one of the Global Notes referred to in the within- mentioned Indenture: Dated: December ___, 2002 THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee By: --------------------------- Name: Title:
(Back of Note) 6?% Senior Notes due 2012 Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated. 1. INTEREST. Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 6?% per annum from December 19, 2002 until maturity and shall pay the Liquidated Damages, if any, payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company shall pay interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be June 15, 2003. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 2. METHOD OF PAYMENT. The Company shall pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the June 1 or December 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes shall be payable at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; provided that all payments of principal, premium, interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, with respect to Notes the Holders of which have given wire transfer instructions to the Trustee shall be required to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. 3. PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR. Initially, The Bank of New York, the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity. 4. INDENTURE. The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of December 19, 2002 (the "Indenture") between the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. 5. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. (a) Except as set forth in subparagraph (b) of this Paragraph 5, the Company shall not have the option to redeem the Notes prior to December 15, 2007. Thereafter, the Company shall have the option to redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices, expressed as percentages of principal amount, set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes redeemed to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on December 15 of the years indicated below: Year Percentage 2007....................................................... 103.438% 2008....................................................... 102.292% 2009....................................................... 101.146% 2010 and thereafter........................................ 100.000% (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph 5, at any time prior to December 15, 2005, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem, in whole or in part, up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes, including Additional Notes, if any, issued under the Indenture, at a redemption price of 106.875% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, thereon to the redemption date with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings; provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, including Additional Notes, if any, issued under the Indenture, remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption, excluding Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries; and the redemption occurs within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering. 6. MANDATORY REDEMPTION. Except as set forth in Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 of the Indenture, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes. 7. REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER. (a) If a Change of Control occurs, and the Company does not redeem the Notes as described under clause (5) above within 60 days after the Change of Control, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to repurchase all or any part, equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, of each Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Indenture. (b) If the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary consummates any Asset Sales and the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20 million, the Company shall commence an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is pari passu with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in the Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other pari passu Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds (an "Asset Sale Offer") pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Indenture at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the date of purchase and shall be payable in cash. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Notes and other pari passu Indebtedness tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company (or such Subsidiary) may use those Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by the Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other pari passu Indebtedness surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee shall select the Notes and other pari passu Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Holders of Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase shall receive an Asset Sale Offer from the Company prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Notes. 8. NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. 9. DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE. The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. Notes may be transferred or exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or transfer any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date. 10. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS. The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes. 11. AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER. Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes, voting as a single class, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes, voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, to provide for the assumption of the Company's or Guarantor's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder, to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with the Indenture, to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental Indenture to the Indenture and/or a Guarantee with respect to the Notes, to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee, to add Guarantees with respect to the Notes and to secure the Notes. 12. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES. An "EVENT OF DEFAULT" occurs if: (i) the Company defaults for a period of 30 days in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Notes; (ii) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes; (iii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Section 5.01 of the Indenture; (iv) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 30 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee to comply with any of the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 of the Indenture; (v) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 60 days after notice to comply with any of the other agreements in the Indenture or the Notes; (vi) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries defaults under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Indenture, if that default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness on or before the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "Payment Default") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $50 million or more or its foreign currency equivalent; (vii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $50 million or its foreign currency equivalent, excluding amounts covered by insurance, which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (viii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency occur with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law; or (ix) except as permitted by the Indenture, any Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's Guarantee. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, with respect to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law, all outstanding Notes shall become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest, except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest or Liquidated Damages, if any. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest or Liquidated Damages, if any, on, or the principal of, the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. 13. TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee. 14. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Guarantors under the Notes, the Guarantees or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes. 15. AUTHENTICATION. This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent. 16. ABBREVIATIONS. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act). 17. ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF RESTRICTED GLOBAL NOTES AND RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE NOTES. In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of December 19, 2002, between the Company and the parties named on the signature pages thereof (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). 18. CUSIP NUMBERS. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and/or the Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to: Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: Chief Financial Officer
ASSIGNMENT FORM To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to: _________________________________ (Insert assignee's legal name) _______________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. no.) _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint_____________________________________________________ to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. Date: ____________________ Your Signature:________________________________ (sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this senior note) Tax Identification No:__________________________ Signature Guarantee:____________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15 of the Indenture, check the box below: |_| Section 4.10 |_| Section 4.15 If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.15 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $_____________ Date: ____________________ Your Signature:______________________________ (sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this senior note) Tax Identification No:_______________________ Signature Guarantee:________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS IN THE GLOBAL NOTE (1) The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
EXHIBIT B FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 6-7/8% Senior Notes due 2012 (CUSIP ) Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of December 19, 2002 (the "Indenture"), among Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "Company"), the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and The Bank of New York, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. ___________________, (the "Transferor") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $___________ in such Note[s] or interests (the "Transfer"), to ___________________________ (the "Transferee"), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that: [CHECK ALL THAT APPLY] 1. |_| Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to Rule 144A. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act. 2. |_| Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Temporary Regulation S Global Note, the Regulation S Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a Person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Note, the Temporary Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act. 3. |_| Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S. The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one): (a) |_| such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or (b) |_| such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or (c) |_| such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or (d) |_| such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Note or Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture and (2) if such Transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Notes at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the IAI Global Note and/or the Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act. 4. |_| Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. (a) |_| Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture. (b) |_| Check if Transfer is pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture. (c) |_| Check if Transfer is pursuant to Other Exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture. This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company. __________________________________________ [Insert Name of Transferor] By: ------------------------------------ Name: Title: Dated: _______________________
ANNEX A TO CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER 1. The Transferor owns and proposes to transfer the following: [CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)] (a) |_| a beneficial interest in the: (i) |_| 144A Global Note (CUSIP 058498AE6), or (ii) |_| Regulation S Global Note (CUSIP U05796AC8), or (iii) |_| IAI Global Note (CUSIP 058498AG1); or (b) |_| a Restricted Definitive Note. 2. After the Transfer the Transferee will hold: [CHECK ONE] (a) |_| a beneficial interest in the: (i) |_| 144A Global Note (CUSIP 058498AE6), or (ii) |_| Regulation S Global Note (CUSIP U05796AC8), or (iii) |_| IAI Global Note (CUSIP 058498AG1); or (iv) |_| Unrestricted Global Note (CUSIP ); or (b) |_| a Restricted Definitive Note; or (c) |_| an Unrestricted Definitive Note, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
EXHIBIT C FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF EXCHANGE Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 6-7/8% Senior Notes due 2012 (CUSIP ) Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of December 19, 2002 (the "Indenture"), among Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "Company"), the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and The Bank of New York, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. __________________________, (the "Owner") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $____________ in such Note[s] or interests (the "Exchange"). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that: 1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note (a) |_| Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (b) |_| Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (c) |_| Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (d) |_| Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. 2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes (a) |_| Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act. (b) |_| Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] |_| 144A Global Note, |_| Regulation S Global Note, |_| IAI Global Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act. This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company. ----------------------------------- [Insert Name of Transferor] By: --------------------------------- Name: Title: Dated: ______________________
EXHIBIT D FORM OF CERTIFICATE FROM ACQUIRING INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 6-7/8% Senior Notes due 2012 (CUSIP ) Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of December 19, 2002 (the "Indenture"), among Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "Company"), the guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and The Bank of New York, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. In connection with our proposed purchase of $____________ aggregate principal amount of: (a) |_| a beneficial interest in a Global Note, or (b) |_| a Definitive Note, we confirm that: 1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). 2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and, if such transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Notes, at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any Person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein. 3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect. 4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment. 5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion. You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. ____________________________________ [Insert Name of Accredited Investor] By: ____________________________ Name: Title: Dated: _______________________
EXHIBIT E FORM OF NOTATION OF GUARANTEE For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Senior Note Indenture dated as of December 19, 2002 (the "Indenture") among Ball Corporation, the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"), (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes (as defined in the Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal and premium, and, to the extent permitted by law, interest, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 10 of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Trustee, on behalf of such Holder, to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in the Indenture and (c) appoints the Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for such purpose; provided, however, that the Indebtedness evidenced by this Guarantee shall cease to be so subordinated and subject in right of payment upon any defeasance of this Note in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. [Name of Guarantor(s)] By: ------------------------------ Name: Title:
EXHIBIT F FORM OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO BE DELIVERED BY SUBSEQUENT GUARANTORS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of ________________, 200__, among __________________ (the "Guaranteeing Subsidiary"), a subsidiary of Ball Corporation (or its permitted successor), an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), the Company, the other Guarantors (as defined in the Indenture referred to herein) and The Bank of New York, as trustee under the indenture referred to below (the "Trustee"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of December 19, 2002 providing for the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of up to $300.0 million of 6?% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Notes"); WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "Note Guarantee"); and WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows: 1. Capitalized Terms. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. 2. Agreement to Guarantee. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows: (a) Along with all Guarantors named in the Indenture, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (i) the principal of, and premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. (b) The obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. (c) The following is hereby waived: diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever. (d) This Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture, and the Guaranteeing Subsidiary accepts all obligations of a Guarantor under the Indenture. (e) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. (f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. (g) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee. (h) The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee. (i) Pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 10 of the Indenture, this new Note Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount permissible such that the obligations of such Guarantor under this Note Guarantee will not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. 3. Execution and Delivery. Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee. 4. Guaranteeing Subsidiary may Consolidate, etc. on Certain Terms. (a) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not sell or otherwise dispose of all substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person, other than the Company or another Guarantor unless: (i) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (ii) either (A) subject to Sections 10.04 and 10.05 of the Indenture, the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger unconditionally assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, under the Notes, the Indenture and the Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; or (B) the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation, Section 4.10 thereof. (b) In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable under the Indenture which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. (c) Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 and Section 10.05 of Article 10 of the Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor. 5. Releases. (a) In the event of any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the capital stock of any Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) a [Restricted] Subsidiary of the Company, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Note Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Indenture. Upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Note Guarantee. (b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the Indenture as provided in Article 10 of the Indenture. 6. No Recourse Against Others. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, any Note Guarantees, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the SEC that such a waiver is against public policy. 7. New York Law to Govern. THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 8. Counterparts. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. 9. Effect of Headings. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 10. The Trustee. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written. Dated: _______________, 20___ [GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY] By: _______________________________ Name: Title: [COMPANY] By: _______________________________ Name: Title: [EXISTING GUARANTORS] By: _______________________________ Name: Title: [TRUSTEE], as Trustee By: _______________________________ Authorized Signatory

Exhibit 4.3 ================================================================================ BALL CORPORATION And GUARANTORS Parties Hereto ------------------------------ $300,000,000 SERIES A AND SERIES B 7 3/4% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2006 ------------------------------ ------------------------------ AMENDED AND RESTATED SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE INDENTURE DATED AS OF AUGUST 10, 1998 AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT DATED AS OF DECEMBER 19, 2002 ------------------------------ The Bank of New York Senior Note Trustee ================================================================================
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE* Trust Indenture Act Section Indenture Section 310 (a)(1) ....................................................7.10 (a)(2).....................................................7.10 (a)(3).....................................................N.A. (a)(4).....................................................N.A. (a)(5).....................................................7.10 (b)........................................................7.10 (c)........................................................N.A. 311 (a)........................................................7.11 (b)........................................................7.11 (c)........................................................N.A. 312 (a)........................................................2.05 (b).......................................................11.03 (c).......................................................11.03 313 (a)........................................................7.06 (b)(2).....................................................7.07 (c)................................................. 7.06;11.02 (d)........................................................7.06 314 (a)..................................................4.03;11.02 (b)........................................................N.A. (c)(1)....................................................11.04 (c)(2)....................................................11.04 (c)(3).....................................................N.A. (e).......................................................11.05 (f)........................................................N.A. 315 (a)........................................................7.01 (b)..................................................7.05,11.02 (c)....................................................... 7.01 (d)........................................................7.01 (e)........................................................6.11 316 (a)(last sentence).........................................2.09 (a)(1)(A)..................................................6.05 (a)(1)(B)..................................................6.04 (a)(2).....................................................N.A. (b)........................................................6.07 (c)........................................................2.12 317 (a)(1).....................................................6.08 (a)(2).....................................................6.09 (b)........................................................2.04 318 (a).......................................................11.01 (b)........................................................N.A. (c).......................................................11.01 N.A. means not applicable. *This Cross-Reference Table is not part of this Senior Note Indenture.
SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE dated as of August 10, 1998, and amended and restated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Asia Services Limited, a Delaware corporation (and a successor to Ball Asia Pacific Limited, a Colorado corporation), Ball Glass Container Corporation, a Delaware corporation, Ball Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Technology Services Corporation, a California corporation, BG Holdings I, Inc., a Delaware corporation, BG Holdings II, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Efratom Holding, Inc., a Colorado corporation, Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly known as Latas de Aluminio Reynolds, Inc.) and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (collectively, the "Guarantors") and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as Senior Note Trustee (the "Senior Note Trustee"). References in this Senior Note Indenture to the "date hereof" or any other reference to the date of this Senior Note Indenture, shall refer to August 10, 1998, and shall not refer to the date of the amendment and restatement. The Company and the Senior Note Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the 7 3/4% Series A Senior Notes due 2006 (the "Series A Senior Notes") and the 7 3/4% Series B Senior Notes due 2006 (the "Series B Senior Notes" and, together with the Series A Senior Notes, the "Senior Notes"): ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Section 1.01 DEFINITIONS. "144A Global Senior Note" means a global note in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto bearing the Global Senior Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A. "Acquired Debt" means, with respect to any specified Person, (i) Indebtedness of any other Person (a) existing at the time such other Person is merged with or into or became a Restricted Subsidiary of such specified Person or is otherwise acquired by such specified Person or (b) assumed in connection with the purchase of all or substantially all the assets of such other Person, including, without limitation, Indebtedness incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, such other Person merging with or into, acquiring or becoming a Restricted Subsidiary of such specified Person, and (ii) Indebtedness secured by a Lien encumbering any asset acquired by such specified Person. "Acquisition" means the acquisition by the Company and Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp. of substantially all the assets of the North American beverage can business of Reynolds Metals Company. "Additional Assets" means (i) any property or assets (other than Capital Stock, Indebtedness or rights to receive payments over a period greater than 180 days) that is usable by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in a Permitted Business or (ii) the Capital Stock of a Person that is at the time, or becomes, a Restricted Subsidiary as a result of the acquisition of such Capital Stock by the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; provided that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a Person shall be deemed to be control. "Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar. "Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Senior Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Cedel that apply to such transfer or exchange. "Asset Sale" means (i) the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of any assets or rights (including, without limitation, by way of a sale and leaseback) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices (provided that the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole will be governed by the provisions of Section 4.15 and/or Section 5.01 hereof and not by the provisions of Section 4.10 hereof, and (ii) the issue or sale by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Equity Interests of any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries, in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), whether in a single transaction or a series of related transactions (a) that have a fair market value in excess of $5.0 million or (b) for Net Proceeds in excess of $5.0 million. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) a transfer of assets by the Company to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, (ii) an issuance or sale of Equity Interests by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, (iii) a Restricted Payment that is not prohibited by Section 4.07 hereof, (iv) sales of receivables (A) of the type specified in the definition of "Qualified Securitization Transaction" to a Securitization Entity for the fair market value thereof, including consideration in the amount specified in the proviso to the definition of Qualified Securitization Transaction or (B) in connection with the Schmalbach Receivables Facility and (v) the sale or disposition of Cash Equivalents or obsolete equipment, will not be deemed to be Asset Sales. "Attributable Debt" in respect of a sale and leaseback transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP) of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such sale and leaseback transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended). "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors. "Business Day" means any day other than a Legal Holiday. "Capital Lease Obligation" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at such time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP. "Capital Stock" means (i) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock, (ii) in the case of an association or business entity, all shares, interests, participation, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock, (iii) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests (whether general or limited) and (iv) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person. "Cash Equivalents" means (i) United States dollars, (ii) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or any agency or instrumentality thereof having maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition, (iii) certificates of deposit and eurodollar time deposits with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition, bankers' acceptances with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition and overnight bank deposits, in each case with any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500 million and a Thompson Bank Watch Rating of "B" or better, (iv) repurchase obligations with a term of not more than seven days for underlying securities of the types described in clauses (ii) and (iii) above entered into with any financial institution meeting the qualifications specified in clause (iii) above and (v) commercial paper having the highest rating obtainable from Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or one of the two highest ratings from Standard & Poor's with maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition. "Cedel" means Cedel Bank, SA. "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole to any "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act; (ii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above) becomes the "beneficial owners" (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total of the Voting Stock of the Company (measured by voting power rather than number of shares); (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or (v) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person or sells, assigns, conveys, transfers, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction is converted into or exchanged for Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person constituting a majority of the outstanding shares of such Voting Stock of such surviving or transferee Person (immediately after giving effect to such issuance). "Company" means Ball Corporation, and any and all successors thereto. "Consolidated Cash Flow" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period plus (i) an amount equal to any extraordinary loss plus any net loss realized in connection with an Asset Sale (to the extent such losses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income), plus (ii) provision for taxes based on income or profits of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes was included in computing such Consolidated Net Income, plus (iii) consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued and whether or not capitalized (including, without limitation, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings and receivables financings, and net payments (if any) pursuant to Hedging Obligations), to the extent that any such expense was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income, plus (iv) depreciation, amortization (including amortization of goodwill and other intangibles but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period) and other noncash expenses (excluding any such noncash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period) of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the extent that such depreciation, amortization and other noncash expenses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income, minus (v) non-cash items increasing such Consolidated Net Income for such period (other than items that were accrued in the ordinary course of business), in each case, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provision for taxes on the income or profits of, and the depreciation and amortization and other non-cash charges of, a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company shall be added to Consolidated Net Income to compute Consolidated Cash Flow of the Company only to the extent (and in same proportion) that the Net Income of such Restricted Subsidiary was included in calculating the Consolidated Net Income of such Person and only if a corresponding amount would be permitted at the date of determination to be dividended to the Company by such Restricted Subsidiary without prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained), and without direct or indirect restriction pursuant to the terms of its charter and all agreements, instruments, judgments, decrees, orders, statutes, rules and governmental regulations applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders. "Consolidated Net Income" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries (for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP); provided that (i) the Net Income (but not loss) of any Person that is not a Restricted Subsidiary or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting shall be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions paid in cash to the referent Person or a Restricted Subsidiary, (ii) the Net Income of any Restricted Subsidiary shall be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by that Restricted Subsidiary of that Net Income is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) or, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders, (iii) the Net Income of any Person acquired in a pooling of interests transaction for any period prior to the date of such acquisition shall be excluded, and (iv) the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles shall be excluded. "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Senior Note Indenture or (ii) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such nomination or election. "Corporate Trust Office of the Senior Note Trustee" shall be at the address of the Senior Note Trustee specified in Section 11.02 hereof or such other address as to which the Senior Note Trustee may give notice to the Company. "Credit Agreements" means (i) the Long-Term Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998 among the Company, the financial institutions from time to time a party thereto as lenders, The First National Bank of Chicago, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, in its capacity as Syndication Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., in its capacity as Documentation Agent (as the same may from time to time be amended, modified, supplemented and/or restated, the "Long-Term Credit Agreement"), (ii) the Short-Term Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998 among the Company, the financial institutions from time to time a party thereto as lenders, The First National Bank of Chicago, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, in its capacity as Syndication Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., in its capacity as Documentation Agent (as the same may from time to time be amended, modified, supplemented and/or restated, the "Short-Term Credit Agreement"), and (iii) the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998 among the Company, Ball Packaging Products Canada, Inc., and the Royal Bank of Canada. "Credit Facilities" means one or more debt facilities (including, without limitation, the Credit Agreements) or commercial paper facilities, in each case with banks or other lenders providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financings (including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables) or letters of credit, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time. "Custodian" means the Senior Note Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Senior Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto. "Default" means any event that is or with the passage of time or the giving of notice (or both) would be an Event of Default. "Definitive Senior Note" means a certificated Senior Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.06 hereof, in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto except that such Senior Note shall not bear the Global Senior Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Note" attached thereto. "Depositary" means, with respect to the Senior Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.03 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Senior Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Senior Note Indenture. "Designated Noncash Consideration" means the fair market value of noncash consideration received by the Company or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale that is so designated as Designated Noncash Consideration pursuant to an Officers' Certificate, setting forth the basis of such valuation, executed by the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of the Company, less the amount of cash or Cash Equivalents received in connection with a sale of such Designated Noncash Consideration. "Designated Senior Debt" means (i) any Indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Agreements and (ii) any other Senior Debt permitted hereunder the principal amount of which is $25.0 million or more and that has been designated by the Company as "Designated Senior Debt." "Disqualified Stock" means any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 91 days after the date on which the Senior Notes mature, except to the extent that such Capital Stock is solely redeemable with, or solely exchangeable for, any Capital Stock of such Person that is not Disqualified Stock. "Domestic Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary that is (i) formed under the laws of the United States of America or a state or territory thereof or (ii) as of the date of determination, treated as a domestic entity or a partnership or a division of a domestic entity for United States federal income tax purposes. "Equity Interests" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock). "Euroclear" means Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Brussels office, as operator of the Euroclear system. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Offer" has the meaning set forth in the Senior Registration Rights Agreement. "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in the Senior Registration Rights Agreement. "Exchange Senior Notes" means the Senior Notes issued in the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2.06(f) hereof. "Excluded Subsidiary" means each of the following Subsidiaries of the Company: Analytic Decisions, Incorporated, a Virginia corporation; Ball Corporation, a Nevada corporation; Ball-Canada Holdings Inc., a Canadian corporation; Ball Glass Containers, Inc., a Delaware corporation; Ball International Sales Corporation, a Delaware corporation; Ball Metal Container Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Ball Technology Licensing Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Heekin Can, Inc., a Colorado corporation; Metropack Containers Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Muncie & Western Railroad Company, an Indiana corporation; Ball Pan Asia Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of Mauritius; and Ball Brazil Holdings Limited, a Company Limited by Shares organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands; provided, that each such Subsidiary shall be an Excluded Subsidiary only if and only for so long as (i) each such Subsidiary is in existence solely for the purposes of being a "name-holding" entity, (ii) each such Subsidiary engages in no business, (iii) each such Subsidiary has no liabilities (including any guarantee of Indebtedness of any other Person), and (iv) the aggregate of the assets (including capitalization) of all such Subsidiaries shall not exceed $5,000,000.00. "Existing Indebtedness" means Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in existence on the date of this Senior Note Indenture. "Fixed Charges" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued (including, without limitation, to the extent properly characterized as interest expense in accordance with GAAP, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings, and net payments (if any) pursuant to Hedging Obligations), (ii) the consolidated interest of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries that was capitalized during such period, (iii) any interest expense on Indebtedness of another Person that is Guaranteed by such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries or secured by a Lien on assets of such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries (whether, or not such Guarantee or Lien is called upon) and (iv) all dividend payments, whether or not in cash, on any series of preferred stock of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than dividend payments on Equity Interests payable solely in Equity Interests of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock). "Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio" means with respect to any Person for any period, the ratio of the Consolidated Cash Flow of such Person for such period to the Fixed Charges of such Person for such period. In the event that the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries incurs, assumes, Guarantees or redeems any Indebtedness (other than revolving credit borrowings under any Credit Facility) or issues preferred stock subsequent to the commencement of the period for which the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is being calculated but on or prior to the date on which the event for which the calculation of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is made (the "Calculation Date"), then the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio shall be calculated giving pro forma effect to such incurrence, assumption, Guarantee or redemption of Indebtedness, or such issuance or redemption of preferred stock, as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter reference period. In addition, for purposes of making the computation referred to above, (i) acquisitions that have been made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, including through mergers or consolidations and including any related financing transactions, during the four-quarter reference period or subsequent to such reference period and on or prior to the Calculation Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day of the four-quarter reference period and Consolidated Cash Flow for such reference period shall be calculated without giving effect to clause (iii) of the proviso set forth in the definition of Consolidated Net Income, (ii) the Consolidated Cash Flow attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, shall be excluded, and (iii) the Fixed Charges attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, shall be excluded, but only to the extent that the obligations giving rise to such Fixed Charges will not be obligations of the referent Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries following the Calculation Date. "Foreign Subsidiaries" means Subsidiaries of the Company that are not Domestic Subsidiaries. "FTB" means FTB Packaging Limited, a Hong Kong corporation. "FTB Group" means FTB and each of its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, MCP and each of its Subsidiaries and joint ventures. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and such other statements by such other entities as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable at the date of this Senior Note Indenture. "Global Senior Note Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(ii), which is required to be placed on all Global Senior Notes issued under this Senior Note Indenture. "Global Senior Notes" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Senior Notes and the Unrestricted Global Senior Notes, in the form of Exhibits A1 and A2 hereto issued in accordance with Section 2.01, 2.06(b)(iv), 2.06(d)(ii) or 2.06(f) hereof. "Government Securities" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America, and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit. "Guarantee" means a guarantee (other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business), direct or indirect, in any manner (including, without limitation, letters of credit and reimbursement agreements in respect thereof), of all or any part of any Indebtedness. "Guarantors" means each Domestic Subsidiary of the Company (other than Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries) as of the date of this Senior Note Indenture and each other Subsidiary that becomes a party to a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. "Hedging Obligations" means, with respect to any Person, the net payment Obligations of such Person under (i) interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements and (ii) other agreements or arrangements in the ordinary course of business and pursuant to past practices designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates or currency exchange rates. "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Senior Note is registered. "IAI Global Senior Note" means the global Senior Note in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto bearing the Global Senior Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes sold to Institutional Accredited Investors. "Indebtedness" means, with respect to any Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent, in respect of borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit (or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof) or banker's acceptances or representing Capital Lease Obligations or the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property or representing any Hedging Obligations, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable, if and to the extent any of the foregoing indebtedness (other than letters of credit and Hedging Obligations) would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person (whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person) and, to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by such Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person, and any liability, whether or not contingent and whether or not it appears on the balance sheet of such other Person. The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date shall be (i) the accreted value thereof, in the case of any Indebtedness that does not require current payments of interest, and (ii) the principal amount thereof, together with any interest thereon that is more than 30 days past due, in the case of any other Indebtedness. "Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Senior Note through a Participant. "Institutional Accredited Investor" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who are not also QIBs. "Investments" means, with respect to any Person, all investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of direct or indirect loans (including Guarantees of Indebtedness or other Obligations), advances of assets or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and entertainment, moving, and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business, prepaid expenses and accounts receivable), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. If the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the fair market value of the Equity Interests of such Restricted Subsidiary not sold or disposed of in an amount determined as provided in the final paragraph of Section 4.07 hereof. "Legal Holiday" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, the city in which the principal office of the Senior Note Trustee is located or at a place of payment are authorized by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the intervening period. "Letter of Transmittal" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Senior Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer. "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in any asset and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction). "Limited Originator Recourse" means a reimbursement obligation to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in connection with a drawing on a letter of credit, revolving loan commitment, cash collateral account or other such credit enhancement issued to support Indebtedness of a Securitization Entity under a facility for the financing of trade receivables; provided that the available amount of any such form of credit enhancement at any time shall not exceed 10.0% of the principal amount of such Indebtedness at such time. "Liquidated Damages" means all liquidated damages then owing pursuant to Section 5 of the Senior Registration Rights Agreement. "Marketable Securities" means, with respect to any Asset Sale, any readily marketable equity securities that are (i) traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market; and (ii) issued by a corporation having a total equity market capitalization of not less than $250.0 million; provided that the excess of (A) the aggregate amount of securities of any one such corporation held by the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary over (B) ten times the average daily trading volume of such securities during the 20 immediately preceding trading days shall be deemed not to be Marketable Securities; as determined on the date of the contract relating to such Asset Sale. "MCP" means M.C. Packaging (Hong Kong) Limited, a Hong Kong corporation. "Net Income" means, with respect to any Person, the net income (loss) of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of preferred stock dividends, excluding, however, (i) any gain or loss together with any related provision for taxes on such gain or loss, realized in connection with the disposition of any securities by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or the extinguishment of any Indebtedness of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) any extraordinary gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such extraordinary gain or loss, and (iii) any one-time noncash charges (including legal, accounting and debt issuance costs) resulting from the Transactions. "Net Proceeds" means the aggregate cash proceeds or Cash Equivalents received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale (including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Sale), net of all costs relating to such Asset Sale (including, without limitation, legal, accounting, investment banking and brokers fees, and sales and underwriting commissions) and any relocation expenses incurred as a result thereof, taxes paid or payable as a result thereof (after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements) and any reserve for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets established in accordance with GAAP. "Non-Recourse Debt" means Indebtedness (i) as to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (a) provides credit support of any kind (including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Indebtedness), (b) is directly or indirectly liable (as a guarantor or otherwise), or (c) constitutes the lender; and (ii) no default with respect to which (including any rights that the holders thereof may have to take enforcement action against an Unrestricted Subsidiary) would permit (upon notice, lapse of time or both) any holder of any other Indebtedness (other than the Senior Notes being offered hereby) of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to declare a default on such other Indebtedness or cause the payment thereof to be accelerated or payable prior to its stated maturity; and (iii) as to which the lenders have been notified in writing that they will not have any recourse to the stock or assets of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries. "Non-U.S. Person" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person. "Obligations" means any principal, premium, if any, interest (including interest accruing on or after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization relating to the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries whether or not a claim for post-filing interest is allowed in such proceeding), penalties, fees, charges, expenses, indemnifications, reimbursement obligations, damages (including Liquidated Damages), guarantees and other liabilities or amounts payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness or in respect thereof. "Officer" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be a vice-president, the principal financial officer, the treasurer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of Sections 11.04 and 11.05 hereof. "Opinion of Counsel" means an opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Senior Note Trustee, that meets the requirements of Sections 11.04 and 11.05 hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or the Senior Note Trustee. "Participant" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Cedel, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Cedel, respectively (and, with respect to The Depository Trust Company, shall include Euroclear and Cedel). "Participating Broker-Dealer" means a broker-dealer participating in the Exchange Offer. "Permitted Business" means the lines of business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on the date of this Senior Note Indenture and businesses substantially similar, related or incidental thereto or reasonable extensions thereof. "Permitted Investments" means (a) any Investment in the Company or in a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (b) any Investment in Cash Equivalents; (c) any Investment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in a Person engaged in a Permitted Business, if as a result of such Investment (i) such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or (ii) such Person is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (d) any Restricted Investment made as a result of the receipt of non-cash consideration from an Asset Sale that was made pursuant to and in compliance with Section 4.10 hereto; (e) any acquisition of assets solely in exchange for the issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company; (f) other Investments by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in any Person having an aggregate fair market value (measured as of the date made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value), when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (f) that are at the time outstanding, not to exceed $50.0 million; (g) Investments arising in connection with Hedging Obligations that are incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices, for the purpose of fixing or hedging currency, commodity or interest rate risk (including with respect to any floating rate Indebtedness that is permitted by the terms of this Senior Note Indenture to be outstanding) in connection with the conduct of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries which are Guarantors; (h) (1) any Investment by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company in a Securitization Entity or any Investment by a Securitization Entity in any other Person in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; provided that any Investment in a Securitization Entity is in the form of a Purchase Money Note or an equity interest or (2) any sale or transfer of receivables in connection with the Schmalbach Receivables Facility; (i) any Investment existing on the date of this Senior Note Indenture and any amendment, modification, restatement, supplement, extension, renewal, refunding, replacement, refinancing, in whole or in part, thereof; (j) any Investment in FTB Group, the proceeds of which are used to permanently repay Indebtedness of FTB Group that was outstanding on the date of this Senior Note Indenture; and (k) Investments in Permitted Joint Ventures of up to $25 million outstanding at any time. "Permitted Joint Venture" means a joint venture (however structured) engaged in a Permitted Business and in which the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (a) owns at least 40% of the ownership interest or (b) has a right to receive at least 40% of the profits or distributions; provided that such joint venture is not a Subsidiary. "Permitted Liens" means (i) Liens on assets (including, without limitation, the capital stock of a Subsidiary) of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to secure Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities that is permitted by the terms of this Senior Note Indenture to be incurred; (ii) Liens on the assets of the Company or any of the Guarantors to secure Hedging Obligations to any Person that is a holder of Senior Debt (or an Affiliate thereof) with respect to Indebtedness under any Credit Facility permitted by this Senior Note Indenture to be incurred; (iii) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is acquired by, merged into or consolidated with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; provided that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such acquisition, merger or consolidation and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person acquired by, merged into or consolidated with the Company; (iv) Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, provided that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such acquisition and only extend to the property so acquired; (v) Liens existing on the date of this Senior Note Indenture (including a Lien incurred or to be incurred to secure outstanding Indebtedness under the existing 8.46% Guaranteed ESOP Notes, Series A due January 15, 1999 and 8.83% Guaranteed ESOP Notes, Series B due December 15, 2001 of the Ball Corporation Salary Conversion and Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust and the related guarantees thereof by the Company); (vi) Liens to secure any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refinance any Indebtedness secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) through (v), as the case may be, at the time the original Lien became a Permitted Lien; (vii) Liens in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Guarantor; (viii) Liens to secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (xiv) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof, (ix) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with respect to obligations that do not exceed $25.0 million in the aggregate at any one time outstanding and that (a) are not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit (other than trade credit in the ordinary course of business and (b) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of business by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; (x) Liens to secure the performance of statutory obligations, surety or appeal bonds, performance bonds, deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, government contracts, leases or licenses or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business (including, without limitation, landlord Liens on leased properties); (xi) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; provided that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required to conform with GAAP shall have been made therefor; (xii) Liens to secure Indebtedness (including Capital Lease Obligations) permitted by clause (v) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof, covering only the assets acquired with such Indebtedness; (xiii) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords' materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business in respect of obligations not overdue for a period in excess of 60 days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently prosecuted; provided that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required to conform with GAAP shall have been made therefor; (xiv) easements, rights-of-way, zoning and similar restrictions and other similar encumbrances or title defects incurred, or leases or subleases granted to others, in the ordinary course of business, which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or do not interfere with or adversely affect in any material respect the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (xv) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business; (xvi) leases or subleases granted to third Persons not interfering with the ordinary course of business of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (xvii) Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder) incurred or deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, and other types of social security; (xviii) deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure liability to insurance carriers; (xix) Liens for purchase money obligations (including refinancings thereof permitted under Section 4.09 hereof), provided that (A) the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof, and (B) any such Lien encumbers only the asset so purchased; (xx) any attachment or judgment Lien not constituting an Event of Default under clause (i) of the first paragraph of Section 6.01 hereof; (xxi) any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor under any operating lease; (xxii) Liens (A) on assets transferred to a Securitization Entity or on assets of a Securitization Entity, in either case incurred in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction or (B) incurred pursuant to the Schmalbach Receivables Facility; and (xxiii) Liens under licensing agreements for use of Intellectual Property entered into in the ordinary course of business. "Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Indebtedness); provided that: (i) the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount of (or accreted value, if applicable), plus accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any, on, any Indebtedness so extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded (plus the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in connection therewith); (ii) such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; (iii) if the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Notes, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and is subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Notes on terms at least as favorable to the Holders of Senior Notes as those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; and (iv) such Indebtedness is incurred either by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary who is the obligor on the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded. "Person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity. "Private Placement Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(i) to be placed on all Senior Notes issued under this Senior Note Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Senior Note Indenture. "Public Equity Offering" means any underwritten primary public offering of the Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock) pursuant to an effective registration statement (other than a registration statement on Form S-4, Form S-8, or any successor or similar form) under the Securities Act. "Purchase Money Note" means a promissory note of a Securitization Entity evidencing a line of credit, which may be irrevocable, from the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction, which note shall be repaid from cash available to the Securitization Entity, other than amounts required to be established as reserves pursuant to agreements, amounts paid to investors in respect of interest, principal and other amounts owing to such investors and amounts paid in connection with the purchase of newly generated receivables. "QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A. "Qualified Securitization Transaction" means any transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (a) a Securitization Entity (in the case of a transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) and (b) any other Person (in case of a transfer by a Securitization Entity), or may grant a security interest in, any receivables (whether now existing or arising or acquired in the future) of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto including, without limitation, all collateral securing such receivables, all contracts and contract rights and all Guarantees or other obligations in respect of such receivables, proceeds of such receivables and other assets (including contract rights) which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving receivables (collectively, "transferred assets"); provided that in the case of any such transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, the transferor receives cash or Purchase Money Notes in an amount which (when aggregated with the cash and Purchase Money Notes received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries upon all other such transfers of transferred assets during the ninety days preceding such transfer) is at least equal to 75% of the aggregate face amount of all receivables so transferred during such day and the ninety preceding days. "Regulation S" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act. "Regulation S Global Senior Note" means a Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note or Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Note, as appropriate. "Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Note" means a permanent global Senior Note in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto bearing the Global Senior Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note upon expiration of the Restricted Period. "Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note" means a temporary global Senior Note in the form of Exhibit A2 hereto bearing the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S. "Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Senior Note Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Senior Note Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Senior Note Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Senior Note Indenture. "Restricted Definitive Senior Note" means a Definitive Senior Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Restricted Global Senior Note" means a Global Senior Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Restricted Investment" means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment. "Restricted Period" means the 40-day restricted period as defined in Regulation S. "Restricted Subsidiary" of a Person means any Subsidiary of the referent Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary; provided that, on the date of this Senior Note Indenture, all Subsidiaries of the Company other than FTB Group, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries shall be Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company. "Rule 144" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 903" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 904" means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Schmalbach Receivables Facility" means the existing accounts receivables securitization program of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG and its Subsidiaries, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced, increased or refinanced, in whole or in part, from time to time, by one or more of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG, its existing and future European subsidiaries, European affiliates that are Restricted Subsidiaries and Ball Capital Corp.; provided, that the principal or capital amount outstanding under any such facility shall not exceed (euro)100 million in the aggregate. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Securitization Entity" means a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company (or another Person in which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company makes an Investment and to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company transfers receivables and related assets) that engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of receivables and that is designated by the Board of the Directors of the Company (as provided below) as a Securitization Entity (a) no portion of the Indebtedness or any other Obligations (contingent or otherwise) of which (i) is guaranteed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company (other than the Securitization Entity) in any way other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company (other than the Securitization Entity), directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction thereof, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (b) with which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any material contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding other than on terms no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company, other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business in connection with servicing receivables of such entity and (c) to which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any obligation to maintain or preserve such entity's financial condition or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results. Any such designation by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be evidenced to the Senior Note Trustee by filing with the Senior Note Trustee a certified copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions. "Senior Debt" means (i) all Indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facility permitted under clauses (i) and (ii) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof, (ii) any other Indebtedness permitted to be incurred by the Company under the terms of this Senior Note Indenture, unless the instrument under which such Indebtedness is incurred expressly provides that it is on a parity with or subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Notes and (iii) all Obligations with respect to the foregoing. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, Senior Debt will not include (w) any liability for federal, state, local or other taxes owed or owing by the Company, (x) any Indebtedness of the Company to any of its Subsidiaries or other Affiliates, (y) any trade payables or (z) any Indebtedness that is incurred in violation of this Senior Note Indenture. "Senior Make-Whole Premium" means, in connection with any optional redemption of any Senior Note, the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the date of such redemption of each dollar of principal of such Senior Note being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) that would have been payable in respect of such dollar if such redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, such principal and interest at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Yield (determined on the Business Day immediately preceding the date of such redemption) plus 0.5% per annum, from the respective dates on which such principal and interest would have been payable if such redemption had not been made, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of such Senior Note being redeemed. "Senior Note Indenture" means this Senior Note Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time. "Senior Notes" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Senior Note Indenture. "Senior Note Trustee" means the party named as such above until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Senior Note Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder. "Senior Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement with respect to the Senior Notes, dated as of August 10, 1998, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. "Senior Subordinated Note Indenture" means that certain Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, dated as of the date of this Senior Note Indenture, between the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, as amended or supplemented from time to time, relating to the Senior Subordinated Notes. "Senior Subordinated Notes" means the Company's 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 issued concurrently pursuant to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "Senior Subsidiary Guarantee" means the Guarantee of the Senior Notes by each of the Guarantors pursuant to Article 10 hereof and in the form of Guarantee endorsed on the forms of Senior Note attached as Exhibits A1 and A2 hereto and any additional Guarantee of the Senior Notes to be executed by any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to Section 4.16 hereof. "Series A Senior Notes" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Senior Note Indenture. "Series B Senior Notes" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Senior Note Indenture. "Shelf Registration Statement" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Senior Registration Rights Agreement. "Significant Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Senior Note Indenture. "Standard Securitization Undertakings" means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company that are reasonably customary in receivables securitization transactions. "Stated Maturity" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which such payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the Credit Agreements or other original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and shall not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person and (ii) any partnership (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or an entity described in clause (i) and related to such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or of one or more entities described in clause (i) and related to such Person (or any combination thereof). "Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee" means the Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes by each of the Guarantors pursuant to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and any additional Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes to be executed by any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. ss.ss. 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date on which this Senior Note Indenture is qualified under the TIA. "Total Assets" means the total assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP, as shown on the most recently available consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. "Transactions" means the entering into the Credit Agreements; the issuance of the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes; and the Acquisition. "Treasury Yield" means, in connection with the calculation of any Senior Make-Whole Premium on any Senior Note, the yield to maturity at the time of computation of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled by and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) that has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to the date fixed for redemption (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar data)) equal to the then remaining maturity of such Senior Note; provided that if no United States Treasury security is available with such a constant maturity and for which a closing yield is given, the Treasury Yield shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the closing yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the remaining maturity of such Senior Note is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used. "Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note" means one or more Definitive Senior Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend. "Unrestricted Global Senior Note" means a permanent global Senior Note in the form of Exhibit A1 attached hereto that bears the Global Senior Note Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Note" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Senior Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means each of FTB Group, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries. In addition, "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means (i) any Subsidiary that is designated by the Board of Directors as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a Board Resolution; but only to the extent that such Subsidiary: (a) has no Indebtedness other than Non-Recourse Debt; (b) is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company unless the terms of any such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of the Company; (c) is a Person with respect to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation (x) to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or (y) to maintain or preserve such Person's net worth; and (d) has not guaranteed or otherwise directly or indirectly provided credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may guarantee the performance of Unrestricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business except for guarantees of Obligations in respect of borrowed money. Any such designation by the Board of Directors shall be evidenced to the Senior Note Trustee by filing with the Senior Note Trustee a certified copy of the board resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions and was permitted by Section 4.07 hereof. "U.S. Person" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act. "Voting Stock" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person. "Weighted Average Life to Maturity" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing (i) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect thereof, by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment, by (ii) the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness. "Wholly Owned Subsidiary" means a Restricted Subsidiary, 100% of the outstanding Capital Stock and other Equity Interests of which is directly or indirectly owned by the Company. Section 1.02 OTHER DEFINITIONS. Defined in Term Section "Affiliate Transaction"...........................................4.11 "Authentication Order"............................................2.02 "Calculation Date"................................................1.01 "Change of Control Offer".........................................4.15 "Change of Control Payment".......................................4.15 "Change of Control Payment Date"..................................4.15 "Covenant Defeasance"...............................................03 "DTC" ............................................................2.03 "Event of Default" ...............................................6.01 "Excess Proceeds".................................................4.10 "incur"...........................................................4.09 "Investment Grade Ratings"........................................4.19 "Legal Defeasance"................................................8.02 "Long-Term Credit Agreement" ...................................1.01 "Moody's".........................................................4.19 "Offer Amount"....................................................3.09 "Offer Period" ...................................................3.09 "Other Indebtedness"..............................................4.16 "Paying Agent" ...................................................2.03 "Payment Default".................................................6.01 "Permitted Debt" .................................................4.09 "Purchase Date"...................................................3.09 "Rating Agencies".................................................4.19 "Registrar".......................................................2.03 "Restricted Payments".............................................4.07 "S&P" ............................................................4.19 "Senior Asset Sale Offer".........................................4.10 "Short-Term Credit Agreement" ...................................1.01 "Suspended Covenants".............................................4.19 "Suspension Period"...............................................4.19 Section 1.03 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF TRUST INDENTURE ACT. Whenever this Senior Note Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Senior Note Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Senior Note Indenture have the following meanings: "Indenture securities" means the Senior Notes; "Indenture security Holder" means a Holder of a Senior Note; "Indenture to be qualified" means this Senior Note Indenture; "Indenture Trustee" or "institutional Trustee" means the Senior Note Trustee; and "obligor" on the Senior Notes and the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees means the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, and any successor obligor upon the Senior Notes and the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees, respectively. All other terms used in this Senior Note Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them. Section 1.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION. Unless the context otherwise requires: (1) a term has the meaning assigned to it; (2) an accounting term not otherwise defined herein has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP; (3) "or" is not exclusive; (4) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular; (5) provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and (6) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act shall be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time. ARTICLE 2 THE SENIOR NOTES Section 2.01 FORM AND DATING. (a) General. The Senior Notes and the Senior Note Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibits A1 and A2 hereto. The Senior Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Senior Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Senior Notes shall be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. The terms and provisions contained in the Senior Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Senior Note Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Senior Note Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Senior Note Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Senior Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Senior Note Indenture, the provisions of this Senior Note Indenture shall govern and be controlling. (b) Global Senior Notes. Senior Notes issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibits A1 or A2 attached hereto (including the Global Senior Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Note" attached thereto). Senior Notes issued in definitive form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 attached hereto (but without the Global Senior Note Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Note" attached thereto). Each Global Senior Note shall represent such of the outstanding Senior Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Senior Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Senior Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Senior Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Senior Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Senior Note Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Senior Note Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 hereof. (c) Temporary Global Senior Notes. Senior Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Senior Notes represented thereby with the Senior Note Trustee, at its New York office, as custodian for the Depositary, and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary for the accounts of designated agents holding on behalf of Euroclear or Cedel Bank, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Senior Note Trustee as hereinafter provided. The Restricted Period shall be terminated upon the receipt by the Senior Note Trustee of (i) a written certificate from the Depositary, together with copies of certificates from Euroclear and Cedel Bank certifying that they have received certification of non-United States beneficial ownership of 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note (except to the extent of any beneficial owners thereof who acquired an interest therein during the Restricted Period pursuant to another exemption from registration under the Securities Act and who will take delivery of a beneficial ownership interest in a 144A Global Senior Note or an IAI Global Senior Note bearing a Private Placement Legend, all as contemplated by Section 2.06(a)(ii) hereof), and (ii) an Officers' Certificate from the Company. Following the termination of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note shall be exchanged for beneficial interests in Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Notes pursuant to the Applicable Procedures. Simultaneously with the authentication of Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Notes, the Senior Note Trustee shall cancel the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note. The aggregate principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note and the Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Senior Note Trustee and the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, in connection with transfers of interest as hereinafter provided. (d) Euroclear and Cedel Procedures Applicable. The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Cedel Bank" and "Customer Handbook" of Cedel Bank shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note and the Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Notes that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Cedel Bank. Section 2.02 EXECUTION AND AUTHENTICATION. One Officer shall sign the Senior Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature. If an Officer whose signature is on a Senior Note no longer holds that office at the time a Senior Note is authenticated, the Senior Note shall nevertheless be valid. A Senior Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Senior Note Trustee. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Senior Note has been authenticated under this Senior Note Indenture. The Senior Note Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Company signed by one Officer (an "Authentication Order"), authenticate Senior Notes for original issue up to the aggregate principal amount stated in paragraph 4 of the Senior Notes. The aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding at any time may not exceed such amount except as provided in Section 2.07 hereof. The Senior Note Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Senior Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Senior Notes whenever the Senior Note Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Senior Note Indenture to authentication by the Senior Note Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company. Section 2.03 REGISTRAR AND PAYING AGENT. The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Senior Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("Registrar") and an office or agency where Senior Notes may be presented for payment ("Paying Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Senior Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company shall notify the Senior Note Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Senior Note Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Senior Note Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar. The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Senior Notes. The Company initially appoints the Senior Note Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Senior Notes. Section 2.04 PAYING AGENT TO HOLD MONEY IN TRUST. The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Senior Note Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Senior Note Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on the Senior Notes, and will notify the Senior Note Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Senior Note Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Senior Note Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Senior Note Trustee. Upon payment over to the Senior Note Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Senior Note Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Senior Notes. Section 2.05 HOLDER LISTS. The Senior Note Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA ss. 312(a). If the Senior Note Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Senior Note Trustee at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Senior Note Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Senior Note Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Senior Notes and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA ss. 312(a). Section 2.06 TRANSFER AND EXCHANGE. (a) Transfer and Exchange of Global Senior Notes. A Global Senior Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Senior Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Senior Notes if (i) the Company delivers to the Senior Note Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Senior Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Senior Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Senior Note Trustee; provided that in no event shall the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Senior Notes prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(c)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act. Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in (i) or (ii) above, Definitive Senior Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Senior Note Trustee. Global Senior Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.10 hereof. Every Senior Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Senior Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.06 or Section 2.07 or 2.10 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Senior Note. A Global Senior Note may not be exchanged for another Senior Note other than as provided in this Section 2.06(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Senior Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.06(b), (c) or (f) hereof. (b) Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Senior Notes. The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Senior Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Senior Note Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Senior Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Senior Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable: (i) Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Senior Note. Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Senior Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Senior Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; provided, however, that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Temporary Regulation S Global Senior Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Senior Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.06(b)(i). (ii) All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Senior Notes. In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.06(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Senior Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Senior Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Senior Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; provided that in no event shall Definitive Senior Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903 under the Securities Act. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.06(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.06(b)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Senior Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Senior Notes contained in this Senior Note Indenture and the Senior Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Senior Note Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Senior Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof. (iii) Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Senior Note. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Senior Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Senior Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(ii) above and the Registrar receives the following: (A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Senior Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note or the Regulation S Global Senior Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and (C) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Senior Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications and certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable. (iv) Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Senior Note For Beneficial Interests in the Unrestricted Global Senior Note. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Senior Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(ii) above and: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal or via the Depositary's book-entry system that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Senior Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above. Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note. (c) Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests For Definitive Senior Notes. (i) Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Notes to Restricted Definitive Senior Notes. If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Senior Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Senior Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation: (A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Senior Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof; (B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; (D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof; (E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; (F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or (G) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Senior Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Senior Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Senior Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Senior Note Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Senior Notes to the Persons in whose names such Senior Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Senior Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein. Notwithstanding Sections 2.06(c)(i)(A) and (C) hereof, a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Senior Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Senior Note prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(c)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904. (ii) Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes. A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note only if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Senior Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Senior Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. (iii) Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Senior Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes. If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Senior Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Senior Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.06(b)(ii) hereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Senior Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Senior Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Senior Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(iii) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Senior Note Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Senior Notes to the Persons in whose names such Senior Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Senior Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(iii) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend. (d) Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Senior Notes for Beneficial Interests. (i) Restricted Definitive Senior Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Notes. If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Senior Note proposes to exchange such Senior Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Senior Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation: (A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Senior Note proposes to exchange such Senior Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof; (B) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (C) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; (D) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof; (E) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Note is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; (F) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or (G) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Senior Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Senior Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Senior Note, in the case of clause (c) above, the Regulation S Global Senior Note, and in all other cases, the IAI Global Senior Note. (ii) Restricted Definitive Senior Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Senior Notes. A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Senior Note may exchange such Senior Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Senior Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note only if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Definitive Senior Notes proposes to exchange such Senior Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Senior Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Definitive Senior Notes proposes to transfer such Senior Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Senior Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.06(d)(ii), the Senior Note Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Senior Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Senior Note. (iii) Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Senior Notes. A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note may exchange such Senior Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note or transfer such Definitive Senior Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Senior Note Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Senior Notes. If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Senior Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Senior Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Senior Notes so transferred. (e) Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Senior Notes for Definitive Senior Notes. Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Senior Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.06(e), the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Senior Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Senior Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.06(e). (i) Restricted Definitive Senior Notes to Restricted Definitive Senior Notes. Any Restricted Definitive Senior Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Senior Note if the Registrar receives the following: (A) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (B) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and (C) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable. (ii) Restricted Definitive Senior Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes. Any Restricted Definitive Senior Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; (C) any such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Senior Notes proposes to exchange such Senior Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Senior Notes proposed to transfer such Senior Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Global Senior Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. (iii) Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes. A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes may transfer such Senior Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof. (f) Exchange Offer. Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Senior Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02, the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Senior Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (x) they are not broker-dealers, (y) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Senior Notes and (z) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer and (ii) Definitive Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Senior Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Senior Notes, the Senior Note Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Senior Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Senior Notes so accepted Definitive Senior Notes in the appropriate principal amount. (g) Legends. The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Senior Notes and Definitive Senior Notes issued under this Senior Note Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Senior Note Indenture. (i) Private Placement Legend. (A) Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Senior Note and each Definitive Senior Note (and all Senior Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form: "THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISION OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (1)(a) TO A PERSON WHO THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (b) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A FOREIGN PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (d) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE COMPANY OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN (A) ABOVE." (B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Senior Note or Definitive Senior Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(iv), (c)(ii), (c)(iii), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (f) to this Section 2.06 (and all Senior Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend. (ii) Global Senior Note Legend. Each Global Senior Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "THIS GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SENIOR NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY." (iii) Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note Legend. The Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SENIOR NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE PAYMENT OF INTEREST HEREON." (h) Cancellation and /or Adjustment of Global Senior Notes. At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Senior Note have been exchanged for Definitive Senior Notes or a particular Global Senior Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Senior Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Senior Note Trustee in accordance with Section 2.11 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Senior Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Senior Note or for Definitive Senior Notes, the principal amount of Senior Notes represented by such Global Senior Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Senior Note by the Senior Note Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Senior Note Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Senior Note, such other Global Senior Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Senior Note by the Senior Note Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Senior Note Trustee to reflect such increase. (i) General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges. (i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate Global Senior Notes and Definitive Senior Notes upon the Company's order or at the Registrar's request. (ii) No service charge shall be made to a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Senior Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Senior Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.10, 3.06, 3.09, 4.10, 4.15 and 9.05 hereof). (iii) The Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Senior Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Senior Note being redeemed in part. (iv) All Global Senior Notes and Definitive Senior Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Senior Notes or Definitive Senior Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Senior Note Indenture, as the Global Senior Notes or Definitive Senior Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. (v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Senior Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of Senior Notes for redemption under Section 3.02 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Senior Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Senior Note being redeemed in part or (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Senior Note between a record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date. (vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Senior Note, the Senior Note Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Senior Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Senior Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Senior Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Senior Note Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary. (vii) The Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate Global Senior Notes and Definitive Senior Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof. (viii) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.06 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile. Section 2.07 REPLACEMENT SENIOR NOTES. If any mutilated Senior Note is surrendered to the Senior Note Trustee or the Company and the Senior Note Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Senior Note, the Company shall issue and the Senior Note Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate a replacement Senior Note if the Senior Note Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Senior Note Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Senior Note Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Senior Note Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Senior Note is replaced. The Company may charge for its expenses in replacing a Senior Note. Every replacement Senior Note is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Senior Note Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Senior Notes duly issued hereunder. Section 2.08 OUTSTANDING SENIOR NOTES. The Senior Notes outstanding at any time are all the Senior Notes authenticated by the Senior Note Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Senior Note effected by the Senior Note Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Senior Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Senior Note. If a Senior Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Senior Note Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Senior Note is held by a bona fide purchaser. If the principal amount of any Senior Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue. If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Senior Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Senior Notes shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding and shall cease to accrue interest. Section 2.09 TREASURY SENIOR NOTES. In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Senior Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Senior Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, shall be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Senior Note Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Senior Notes that a Responsible Officer of the Senior Note Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Section 2.10 TEMPORARY SENIOR NOTES. Until certificates representing Senior Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Senior Note Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate temporary Senior Notes. Temporary Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form of certificated Senior Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Senior Notes and as shall be reasonably acceptable to the Senior Note Trustee. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate definitive Senior Notes in exchange for temporary Senior Notes. Holders of temporary Senior Notes shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Senior Note Indenture. Section 2.11 CANCELLATION. The Company at any time may deliver Senior Notes to the Senior Note Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and Paying Agent shall forward to the Senior Note Trustee any Senior Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Senior Note Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Senior Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall return such canceled Senior Notes to the Company. The Company may not issue new Senior Notes to replace Senior Notes that it has paid or that have been delivered to the Senior Note Trustee for cancellation. Section 2.12 DEFAULTED INTEREST. If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Senior Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Senior Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. The Company shall notify the Senior Note Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Senior Note and the date of the proposed payment. The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, provided that no such special record date shall be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Senior Note Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) shall mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid. Section 2.13 CUSIP NUMBER. The Company in issuing the Senior Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Senior Note Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Senior Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Senior Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or the omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Senior Note Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENT Section 3.01 NOTICES TO SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE. If the Company elects to redeem Senior Notes pursuant to the redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof, it shall furnish to the Senior Note Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers' Certificate setting forth (i) the clause of this Senior Note Indenture pursuant to which the redemption shall occur, (ii) the redemption date, (iii) the principal amount of Senior Notes to be redeemed, (iv) the redemption price and (v) the CUSIP numbers of the Senior Notes to be redeemed. Section 3.02 SELECTION OF SENIOR NOTES TO BE REDEEMED. If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Senior Note Trustee shall select the Senior Notes to be redeemed or purchased among the Holders of the Senior Notes in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Senior Notes are listed or, if the Senior Notes are not so listed, on a pro rata basis, by lot or in accordance with any other method the Senior Note Trustee considers fair and appropriate. In the event of partial redemption by lot, the particular Senior Notes to be redeemed shall be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Senior Note Trustee from the outstanding Senior Notes not previously called for redemption. The Senior Note Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Senior Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Senior Note selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes selected shall be in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000; except that if all of the Senior Notes of a Holder are to be redeemed, the entire outstanding amount of Senior Notes held by such Holder, even if not a multiple of $1,000, shall be redeemed. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Senior Note Indenture that apply to Senior Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Senior Notes called for redemption. Section 3.03 NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.09 hereof, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Senior Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. The notice shall identify the Senior Notes to be redeemed, including the CUSIP numbers, and shall state: (a) the redemption date; (b) the redemption price; (c) if any Senior Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Senior Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Senior Note, a new Senior Note or Senior Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion shall be issued upon cancellation of the original Senior Note; (d) the name and address of the Paying Agent; (e) that Senior Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price; (f) that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, interest on Senior Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date; (g) the paragraph of the Senior Notes and/or Section of this Senior Note Indenture pursuant to which the Senior Notes called for redemption are being redeemed; and (h) that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Senior Notes. At the Company's request, the Senior Note Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense; provided, however, that the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Note Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Senior Note Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph. Section 3.04 EFFECT OF NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Senior Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional. Section 3.05 DEPOSIT OF REDEMPTION PRICE. One Business Day prior to the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Senior Note Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Senior Notes to be redeemed on that date. The Senior Note Trustee or the Paying Agent shall promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Senior Note Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, all Senior Notes to be redeemed. If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Senior Notes or the portions of Senior Notes called for redemption. If a Senior Note is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Senior Note was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Senior Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Senior Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. Section 3.06 SENIOR NOTES REDEEMED IN PART. Upon surrender of a Senior Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall issue and, upon the Company's written request, the Senior Note Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Company a new Senior Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Senior Note surrendered. Section 3.07 OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. (a) The Senior Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole but not in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice. (b) The Senior Notes will be redeemable at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus the applicable Senior Make-Whole Premium, plus, to the extent not included in the Senior Make-Whole Premium, accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the date of redemption. (c) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.07 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 through 3.06 hereof. Section 3.08 MANDATORY REDEMPTION. Except as set forth in Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Senior Notes. Section 3.09 OFFER TO PURCHASE BY APPLICATION OF EXCESS PROCEEDS. In the event that, pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof, the Company shall be required to commence a Senior Asset Sale Offer, it shall follow the procedures specified below. The Senior Asset Sale Offer shall remain open for a period of 20 Business Days following its commencement and no longer, except to the extent that a longer period is required by applicable law (the "Offer Period"). No later than five Business Days after the termination of the Offer Period (the "Purchase Date"), the Company shall purchase the principal amount of Senior Notes required to be purchased pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof (the "Offer Amount") or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Senior Notes tendered in response to the Senior Asset Sale Offer. Payment for any Senior Notes so purchased shall be made in the same manner as interest payments are made. If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Senior Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Senior Notes pursuant to the Senior Asset Sale Offer. Upon the commencement of a Senior Asset Sale Offer, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to the Senior Note Trustee and each of the Holders. The notice shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable such Holders to tender Senior Notes pursuant to the Senior Asset Sale Offer. The Senior Asset Sale Offer shall be made to all Holders. The notice, which shall govern the terms of the Senior Asset Sale Offer, shall state: (a) that the Senior Asset Sale Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 3.09 and Section 4.10 hereof and the length of time the Senior Asset Sale Offer shall remain open; (b) the Offer Amount, the purchase price and the Purchase Date; (c) that any Senior Note not tendered or accepted for payment shall continue to accrete or accrue interest; (d) that, unless the Company defaults in making such payment, any Senior Note accepted for payment pursuant to the Senior Asset Sale Offer shall cease to accrete or accrue interest after the Purchase Date; (e) that Holders electing to have a Senior Note purchased pursuant to a Senior Asset Sale Offer may only elect to have all of such Senior Note purchased and may not elect to have only a portion of such Senior Note purchased; (f) that Holders electing to have a Senior Note purchased pursuant to any Senior Asset Sale Offer shall be required to surrender the Senior Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Senior Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Company, a depositary, if appointed by the Company, or a Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice at least three days before the Purchase Date; (g) that Holders shall be entitled to withdraw their election if the Company, the depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, receives, not later than the expiration of the Offer Period, a telegram, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Senior Note the Holder delivered for purchase and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Senior Note purchased; (h) that, if the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes surrendered by Holders exceeds the Offer Amount, the Company shall select the Senior Notes to be purchased on a pro rata basis (with such adjustments as may be deemed appropriate by the Company so that only Senior Notes in denominations of $1,000, or integral multiples thereof, shall be purchased); and (i) that Holders whose Senior Notes were purchased only in part shall be issued new Senior Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Senior Notes surrendered (or transferred by book-entry transfer). On or before the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, accept for payment, on a pro rata basis to the extent necessary, the Offer Amount of Senior Notes or portions thereof tendered pursuant to the Senior Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Senior Notes tendered, and shall deliver to the Senior Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Senior Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.09. The Company, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than five days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price of the Senior Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Senior Note, and the Senior Note Trustee, upon written request from the Company shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Senior Note to such Holder, in a principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Senior Note surrendered. Any Senior Note not so accepted shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Senior Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date. Other than as specifically provided in this Section 3.09, any purchase pursuant to this Section 3.09 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06 hereof. ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS Section 4.01 PAYMENT OF SENIOR NOTES. The Company or a Guarantor shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Senior Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, then due. The Company shall pay all Liquidated Damages, if any, in the same manner on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Senior Registration Rights Agreement. The Company or a Guarantor shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Senior Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful. Section 4.02 MAINTENANCE OF OFFICE OR AGENCY. The Company shall maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Senior Note Trustee or an affiliate of the Senior Note Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Senior Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Senior Notes and this Senior Note Indenture may be served. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Senior Note Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Senior Note Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Administration Office of the Senior Note Trustee. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Senior Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Senior Note Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Senior Note Trustee as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.03. Section 4.03 REPORTS. (a) Whether or not the Company is required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, so long as any Senior Notes are outstanding, the Company will furnish to each of the Holders of Senior Notes and to the Senior Note Trustee (i) all quarterly and annual financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the SEC on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file such financial information, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" that describes the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and any consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries and, with respect to the annual information only, reports thereon by the Company's independent public accountants (which shall be firm(s) of established national reputation) and (ii) all information that would be required to be filed with the SEC on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports. All such information and reports shall be filed with the SEC (unless the SEC will not accept such a filing) on or prior to the dates on which such filings would have been required to be made had the Company been subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company shall file a copy of all such information and reports with the SEC for public availability within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations (unless the SEC will not accept such a filing) and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request. The Company shall at all times comply with TIA ss. 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Senior Note Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Senior Note Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Senior Note Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). (b) For so long as any Senior Notes remain outstanding, the Company and the Guarantors shall furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. Section 4.04 COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. (a) The Company and each Guarantor (to the extent that such Guarantor is so required under the TIA) shall deliver to the Senior Note Trustee, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Senior Note Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Senior Note Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Senior Note Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Senior Notes is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. (b) So long as not contrary to the then current recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the year-end financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.03(a) above shall be accompanied by a written statement of the Company's independent public accountants (who shall be a firm of established national reputation) that in making the examination necessary for certification of such financial statements, nothing has come to their attention that would lead them to believe that the Company has violated any provisions of Article 4 or Article 5 hereof or, if any such violation has occurred, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof, it being understood that such accountants shall not be liable directly or indirectly to any Person for any failure to obtain knowledge of any such violation. (c) The Company shall, so long as any of the Senior Notes are outstanding, deliver to the Senior Note Trustee, as soon as possible, but in no event later than five days after any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. Section 4.05 TAXES. The Company shall pay, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Senior Notes. Section 4.06 STAY, EXTENSION AND USURY LAWS. The Company and each of the Guarantors covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Senior Note Indenture; and the Company and each of the Guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Senior Note Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted. Section 4.07 RESTRICTED PAYMENTS. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly: (i) declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of the Company's or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests (including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company) or to the direct or indirect holders of the Company's or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends or distributions payable in Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company); (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value (including without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company) any Equity Interests of the Company or any direct or indirect parent of the Company or other Affiliate of the Company (other than any such Equity Interests owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company); (iii) make any payment on or with respect to, or purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value any subordinated Indebtedness, except a payment of interest or principal at Stated Maturity; or (iv) make any Restricted Investment (all such payments and other actions set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) above being collectively referred to as "Restricted Payments"), unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment: (a) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence thereof; and (b) the Company would, at the time of such Restricted Payment and after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such Restricted Payment had been made at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, have been permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof; and (c) such Restricted Payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other Restricted Payments made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after the date of this Senior Note Indenture (excluding Restricted Payments permitted by clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (x) of the next succeeding paragraph), is less than the sum, without duplication, of (i) 50% of the Consolidated Net Income of the Company for the period (taken as one accounting period) from the beginning of the first fiscal quarter immediately following the date of this Senior Note Indenture to the end of the Company's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available at the time of such Restricted Payment (or, if such Consolidated Net Income for such period is a deficit, less 100% of such deficit), plus (ii) 100% of the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds or the fair market value of property other than cash received by the Company as a contribution to its common equity capital or from the issue or sale since the date of this Senior Note Indenture of Equity Interests of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock), or of Disqualified Stock or debt securities of the Company that have been converted into such Equity Interests (other than Equity Interests (or Disqualified Stock or convertible debt securities) sold to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and other than Disqualified Stock or convertible debt securities that have been converted into Disqualified Stock), plus (iii) to the extent not already included in Consolidated Net Income of the Company for such period and without duplication, any Restricted Investment that was made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after the date of this Senior Note Indenture is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, or any Unrestricted Subsidiary which is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary subsequent to the date of this Senior Note Indenture is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, 100% of the cash return of capital with respect to such Restricted Investment or Unrestricted Subsidiary (less the cost of disposition, if any) and 50% of the excess of the fair market value of the Company's Investment in such Unrestricted Subsidiary as of the date of such redesignation over the amount of the Restricted Investment that reduced this clause (c); provided further, that any amounts that increase this clause (c) shall not duplicatively increase amounts available as Permitted Investments. The foregoing provisions shall not prohibit: (i) the payment of any dividend within 60 days after the date of declaration thereof, if at said date of declaration such payment would have complied with the provisions of this Senior Note Indenture; (ii) the redemption, repurchase, retirement, defeasance or other acquisition of any Indebtedness which is subordinated Indebtedness or Equity Interests of the Company in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale (other than to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company) of, other Equity Interests of the Company (other than any Disqualified Stock); provided that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are utilized for any such redemption, repurchase, retirement, defeasance or other acquisition shall be excluded from clause (c) (ii) of the preceding paragraph; (iii) the defeasance, redemption, repurchase or other acquisition of Indebtedness which is subordinated Indebtedness with the net cash proceeds from an incurrence of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; (iv) the payment of any dividend or distribution by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the holders of its common Equity Interests so long as the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary receives at least its pro rata share of such dividend or distribution in accordance with its Equity Interests in such class or series of securities; (v) the payment of dividends on the Company's Common Stock and Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock of up to a combined amount of $25.0 million per annum; provided that any amount not utilized by the Company to pay dividends in any calendar year will not be carried forward to any subsequent year; (vi) (a) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Equity Interests of the Company that are held by any member of the Company's (or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) management pursuant to any management equity subscription agreement or stock option agreement or (b) the repurchase of Equity Interests of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company held by employee benefits plans (whether directly or for employees, directors or former directors) pursuant to the terms of agreements (other than management equity subscription agreements or stock option agreements) approved by the Company's Board of Directors; provided that, in the case of foregoing clause (a) the aggregate price paid for all such repurchased, redeemed, acquired or retired Equity Interests shall not exceed $10.0 million in the aggregate since the date of this Senior Note Indenture and, in the case of foregoing clause (b), the aggregate purchase price paid for all such repurchased Equity Interests shall not exceed $15.0 million in any twelve-month period; (vii) repurchases of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon exercise of stock options if such Equity Interests represent a portion of the exercise price of such options; (viii) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of the Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the provisions described under Section 3.07 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; provided, that the amount of any Equity Offering used to effect such a repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value shall be excluded from the calculation made pursuant to clause (c)(ii) of the preceding paragraph; (ix) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of the Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the provisions described under Section 4.10 and Section 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; provided, that as of the date of such repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or, with the passage of time, would occur as a consequence thereof; (x) and other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount since the date of this Senior Note Indenture not to exceed $50.0 million under this clause (x); provided that, with respect to clauses (ii), (iii), (v), (vi), (viii), (ix) and (x) above, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing immediately after such transaction or as a consequence thereof. As of the date of this Senior Note Indenture, all of the Company's Subsidiaries other than the FTB Group, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries will be Restricted Subsidiaries. The Board of Directors may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if such designation would not cause a Default. For purposes of making such determination, all outstanding Investments by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (except to the extent repaid in cash) in the Subsidiary so designated will be deemed to be Restricted Payments at the time of such designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under the first paragraph of this Section 4.07. All such outstanding Investments will be deemed to constitute Investments in an amount equal to the fair market value of such Investments at the time of such designation. Such designation will only be permitted if such Restricted Payment would be permitted at such time and if such Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the requirements in the definition of "Unrestricted Subsidiary" as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it shall thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Senior Note Indenture and any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary shall be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as of such date (and, if such Indebtedness is not permitted to be incurred as of such date under Section 4.09 hereof, the Company shall be in default of such covenant). The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that such designation shall be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation shall only be permitted if (i) such Indebtedness is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof calculated on a pro forma basis as if such designation had occurred at the beginning of the four-quarter reference period, (ii) if such Subsidiary is a Domestic Subsidiary, such Subsidiary shall have executed and delivered a supplemental indenture pursuant to which it will become a Guarantor under this Senior Note Indenture, and (iii) no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation. The amount of all Restricted Payments (other than cash) shall be the fair market value on the date of the Restricted Payment of the asset(s) or securities proposed to be transferred or issued by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, pursuant to the Restricted Payment. The fair market value of any noncash Restricted Payment or any adjustment made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 4.07 shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company whose resolution with respect thereto shall be delivered to the Senior Note Trustee, such determination to be based upon an opinion or appraisal issued by an investment banking firm (or, if an investment banking firm is generally not qualified to give such an opinion or appraisal, by an appraisal firm) of national standing if such fair market value exceeds $25.0 million. Not later than the date of making any Restricted Payment, the Company shall deliver to the Senior Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Restricted Payment is permitted and setting forth the basis upon which the calculations required by this Section 4.07 were computed, together with a copy of any fairness opinion or appraisal required by this Senior Note Indenture. If any Restricted Investment is sold or otherwise liquidated or repaid or any dividend or payment is received by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary and such amounts may be credited to clause (c) above, then such amounts will be credited only to the extent of amounts not otherwise included in Consolidated Net Income and that do not otherwise increase the amount available as a Permitted Investment. Section 4.08 DIVIDENDS AND OTHER PAYMENT RESTRICTIONS AFFECTING RESTRICTED SUBSIDIARIES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors to, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or the Company to (i)(x) pay dividends or make any other distributions to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (1) on its Capital Stock or (2) with respect to any other interest or participation in, or measured by, its profits, or (y) pay any Indebtedness owed to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) make loans or advances to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or (iii) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (a) Existing Indebtedness as in effect on the date of this Senior Note Indenture, (b) the Credit Facility as in effect as of the date of this Senior Note Indenture, and any amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof, provided that such amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacement or refinancings are no more restrictive with respect to such dividend and other payment restrictions than those contained in the Credit Facility as in effect on the date of this Senior Note Indenture, (c) this Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes, (d) applicable law or any applicable rule, regulation or order, (e) any instrument governing Indebtedness or Capital Stock of a Person acquired by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries as in effect at the time of such acquisition (except to the extent such Indebtedness was incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition), which encumbrance or restriction is not applicable to any Person, or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person, or the property or assets of the Person, so acquired, provided that, in the case of Indebtedness, such Indebtedness was permitted by the terms of this Senior Note Indenture to be incurred, (f) by reason of customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices, (g) purchase money obligations for property acquired in the ordinary course of business that impose restrictions of the nature described in clause (iii) above on the property so acquired, (h) Indebtedness of Guarantors, provided that such Indebtedness was permitted to be incurred pursuant to this Senior Note Indenture, (i) Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness, provided that the restrictions contained in the agreements governing such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness are no more restrictive than those contained in the agreements governing the Indebtedness being refinanced, (j) secured Indebtedness otherwise permitted to be incurred pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.12 hereof that limits the right of the debtor to dispose of assets securing such Indebtedness, (k) provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property in joint venture or similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business or (l) any Purchase Money Note, or other Indebtedness or other contractual requirements of a Securitization Entity in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; provided that such restrictions apply only to such Securitization Entity. Section 4.09 INCURRENCE OF INDEBTEDNESS AND ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED STOCK. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable, contingently or otherwise, with respect to (collectively, "incur") any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) and that the Company shall not issue any Disqualified Stock and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; provided, however, that the Company may incur Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) or issue shares of Disqualified Stock and any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries may incur Indebtedness if the Company's Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company's most recently ended four full fiscal quarters for which internal financial statements are available immediately preceding the date on which such additional Indebtedness is incurred or such Disqualified Stock is issued would have been at least 2.00 to 1, determined on a pro forma basis (including a pro forma application of the net proceeds therefrom), as if the additional Indebtedness had been incurred, or the Disqualified Stock had been issued, as the case may be, at the beginning of such four-quarter period. The provisions of the first paragraph of this Section 4.09 shall not apply to the incurrence of any of the following items of Indebtedness (collectively, "Permitted Debt"): (i) the incurrence by the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries of term Indebtedness under the Credit Facility, letters of credit (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) and related Guarantees under the Credit Facility; provided that the aggregate principal amount of all term Indebtedness and letters of credit of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) outstanding under the Credit Facility after giving effect to such incurrence, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace any other Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (i) does not exceed an amount equal to $550.0 million; (ii) the incurrence by the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries of revolving credit Indebtedness under the Credit Facility, letters of credit (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) and related Guarantees under the Credit Facility; provided that the aggregate principal amount of all revolving Indebtedness and letters of credit of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) outstanding under the Credit Facility after giving effect to such incurrence, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace any other Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (ii), does not exceed $700.0 million less the aggregate amount of Asset Sale proceeds applied by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to permanently reduce the availability of revolving credit Indebtedness under the Credit Agreements pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.10 hereof; (iii) the incurrence by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries of the Existing Indebtedness; (iv) the incurrence by the Company and the Guarantors of Indebtedness represented by the Senior Notes, the Senior Subordinated Notes, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees and the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees limited in aggregate principal amount, without duplication, to amounts outstanding under this Senior Note Indenture and the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as of their respective dates; (v) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness represented by Capital Lease Obligations, mortgage financings or purchase money obligations, in each case incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of construction or improvement of property, plant or equipment used in the business of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, in an aggregate principal amount, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (v), not to exceed 5% of Total Assets; (vi) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; (vii) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of intercompany Indebtedness between or among the Company and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; provided, however, that (i) if the Company is the obligor on such Indebtedness, such Indebtedness is expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full in cash of all Obligations with respect to the Senior Note and this Senior Note Indenture, (ii) if a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company is the obligor on such Indebtedness, such Indebtedness is expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full in cash of such Restricted Subsidiary's Senior Subsidiary Guarantee and (iii)(A) any subsequent event or issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such Indebtedness being held by a Person other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and (B) any sale or other transfer of any such Indebtedness to a Person that is not either the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed, in each case, to constitute an incurrence of such Indebtedness by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, that was not permitted by this clause (vii); (viii) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Hedging Obligations that are incurred in the normal course of business for the purpose of fixing or hedging currency, commodity or interest rate risk (including with respect to any Indebtedness that is permitted by the terms of this Senior Note Indenture to be outstanding in connection with the conduct of their respective businesses and not for speculative purposes); (ix) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness in the ordinary course of business solely in respect of performance, surety and similar bonds, completion or performance guarantees or standby letters of credit issued for the purpose of supporting workers' compensation liabilities of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, to the extent that such incurrence does not result in the incurrence of any obligation for the payment of borrowed money to others; (x) the incurrence of Indebtedness arising from agreements of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price or similar obligations, in each case, incurred or assumed in connection with the disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary; (xi) the incurrence by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of Indebtedness in connection with and in contemplation of, the concurrent disposition of such Restricted Subsidiary to the stockholders of the Company; provided that such disposition occurs concurrently with such incurrence and following such disposition, neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any liability with respect to such Indebtedness; (xii) the incurrence by a Securitization Entity of Indebtedness in a Qualified Securitization Transaction that is Non-Recourse Debt with respect to the Company and its other Restricted Subsidiaries (except for Standard Securitization Undertakings and Limited Originator Recourse); (xiii) the guarantee by the Company or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that was permitted to be incurred by another provision of this Section 4.09; and (xiv) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount (or accreted value, as applicable) at any time outstanding, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace any other Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (xiv), not to exceed $75.0 million. For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.09, in the event that an item of proposed Indebtedness meets the criteria of more than one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in clauses (i) through (xiv) above as of the date of incurrence thereof or is entitled to be incurred pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 4.09 as of the date of incurrence thereof, the Company shall, in its sole discretion, classify or reclassify such item of Indebtedness as of the date of incurrence thereof in any manner that complies with this Section 4.09 and such item of Indebtedness shall be treated as having been incurred pursuant to only one of such clauses or pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 4.09. Accrual of interest, the accretion of accreted value and the payment of interest in the form of additional Indebtedness will not be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness for purposes of this Section 4.09. Section 4.10 ASSETS SALES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary receives consideration at the time of such Asset Sale at least equal to the fair market value (evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Senior Note Trustee with respect to any Asset Sale determined to have a fair market value greater than $25.0 million) of the assets or Equity Interests issued or sold or otherwise disposed of and (ii) at least 75% of the consideration therefor received by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash or Cash Equivalents; provided that the following amounts shall be deemed to be cash: (w) any liabilities (as shown on the Company's or such Restricted Subsidiary's most recent balance sheet), of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company (other than contingent liabilities and liabilities that are by their terms subordinated to the Senior Notes or any Guarantee thereof) that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets pursuant to a customary novation agreement that releases the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary from further liability, (x) any securities, notes or other obligations received by the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary from such transferee that are converted by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary into cash within 180 days after the consummation of such Asset Sale (to the extent of the cash received), (y) any Designated Noncash Consideration received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in such Asset Sale; provided that the aggregate fair market value (as determined above) of such Designated Noncash Consideration, taken together with the fair market value at the time of receipt of all other Designated Noncash Consideration received pursuant to this clause (y) less the amount of Net Proceeds previously realized in cash from prior Designated Noncash Consideration is less than 5% of Total Assets at the time of the receipt of such Designated Noncash Consideration (with the fair market value of each item of Designated Noncash Consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value) and (z) Additional Assets received in an exchange-of-assets transaction. Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Company may apply such Net Proceeds, at its option, (a) to repay Indebtedness under any Credit Facility (and to correspondingly permanently reduce the commitments with respect thereto in the case of revolving borrowings), (b) to the acquisition of a controlling interest in another business, the making of a capital expenditure or the acquisition of other long-term assets, in each case, in Permitted Businesses or (c) to an Investment in Additional Assets; provided, that the Company will have complied with clause (c) if, within 365 days of such Asset Sale, the Company shall have entered into a definitive agreement covering such Investment which is thereafter completed within 365 days after the first anniversary of such Asset Sale. Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company may temporarily reduce Indebtedness under any Credit Facility or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by this Senior Note Indenture. Any Net Proceeds from Asset Sales that are not applied or invested as provided in the first sentence of this paragraph shall be deemed to constitute "Excess Proceeds." When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20.0 million, the Company shall be required to make an offer to all Holders of Senior Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that ranks pari passu with the Senior Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Senior Note Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (a "Senior Asset Sale Offer") to purchase the maximum principal amount of Senior Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds, at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Senior Note Indenture and such other Indebtedness. To the extent that any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of a Senior Asset Sale Offer, the Company may use any remaining Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Senior Note Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered into such Senior Asset Sale Offer surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Senior Note Trustee shall select the Senior Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Upon completion of such offer to purchase, the amount of Excess Proceeds shall be reset at zero. Section 4.11 TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or Guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate of any such Person (each of the foregoing, an "Affiliate Transaction"), unless (i) such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to the Company or the relevant Restricted Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary with an unrelated Person and (ii) the Company delivers to the Senior Note Trustee (a) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $5.0 million, a resolution of its Board of Directors set forth in an Officers' Certificate certifying that such Affiliate Transaction complies with clause (i) above and that such Affiliate Transaction has been approved by a majority of the disinterested members of its Board of Directors and (b) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $25.0 million, an opinion as to the fairness to the Holders of such Affiliate Transaction from a financial point of view issued by an investment banking firm (or, if an investment banking firm is generally not qualified to give such an opinion, by an appraisal firm) of national standing; provided that none of the following shall be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions: (1) any employment, severance or termination agreement entered into by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and consistent with the past practice of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, (2) transactions between or among the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries, (3) transactions between or among the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries with FTB Group and Permitted Joint Ventures on terms that are no less favorable to the Company and/or such Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company and/or such Subsidiary with an unrelated Person, (4) any sale or other issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company, (5) Restricted Payments that are permitted by and Investments that are not prohibited by Section 4.07 hereof,(6) fees and compensation paid to members of the Board of Directors of the Company and of its Restricted Subsidiaries in their capacity as such, to the extent such fees and compensation are reasonable and customary, (7) advances to employees for moving, entertainment and travel expenses, drawing accounts and similar expenditures in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices, (8) fees and compensation paid to, and indemnity provided on behalf of, officers, directors or employees of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company or of any such Restricted Subsidiary, to the extent such fees and compensation are reasonable and customary, shall not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and (9) transactions effected as part of a Qualified Securitization Transaction. Section 4.12 LIENS. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any Lien of any kind securing Indebtedness, Attributable Debt, or trade payables (other than Permitted Liens) upon any of their property or assets, now owned or hereafter acquired, unless all payments due under this Senior Note Indentures and the Senior Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligations so secured until such time as such obligations are no longer secured by a Lien. Section 4.13 BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, engage in any business other than Permitted Businesses, except to such extent as would not be material to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole. Section 4.14 CORPORATE EXISTENCE. Subject to Article 5 hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect (i) its corporate existence, and the corporate, partnership or other existence of each of its Subsidiaries, in accordance with the respective organizational documents (as the same may be amended from time to time) of the Company or any such Subsidiary and (ii) the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company and its Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise, or the corporate, partnership or other existence of any of its Subsidiaries, if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Senior Notes. Section 4.15 OFFER TO PURCHASE UPON CHANGE OF CONTROL. (a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Senior Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of such Holder's Senior Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer") at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within fifteen days following any Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Senior Notes on the date specified in such notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by this Senior Note Indenture and described in such notice. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Senior Notes as a result of a Change of Control. (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (1) accept for payment all Senior Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Senior Notes or portions thereof so tendered and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Senior Note Trustee the Senior Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company. The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Senior Notes so tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Senior Notes, and the Senior Note Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Senior Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Senior Notes surrendered, if any; provided that each such new Senior Note will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date. The Change of Control provisions described above will be applicable whether or not any other provisions of this Senior Note Indenture are applicable. Except as described above with respect to a Change of Control, this Senior Note Indenture does not contain provisions that permit the Holders of the Senior Notes to require that the Company repurchase or redeem the Senior Notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.15, the Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Senior Note Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Senior Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. Section 4.16 ADDITIONAL SENIOR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES. If the Company or any of its Domestic Subsidiaries (i) acquires or creates any Domestic Subsidiary after the date of this Senior Note Indenture that is not a Guarantor or (ii) causes or permits any Foreign Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor to, directly or indirectly, guarantee the payment of any Indebtedness of the Company or any Domestic Restricted Subsidiary ("Other Indebtedness") then, in each case the Company shall cause such Subsidiary to simultaneously execute and deliver a supplemental indenture in form and substance substantially similar to Exhibit F hereto pursuant to which it will become a Guarantor under this Senior Note Indenture; provided, however, that if such Other Indebtedness is (i) Indebtedness that is ranked pari passu in right of payment with the Senior Notes or such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Notes, as the case may be, such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Notes shall be pari passu in right of payment with such Subsidiary's guarantee of the Other Indebtedness; or (ii) subordinated Indebtedness, such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Notes shall be senior in right of payment to the guarantee of Other Indebtedness (which guarantee of such subordinated Indebtedness shall provide that the guarantee is subordinated to such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Notes to the same extent and in the same manner as the Other Indebtedness is subordinated to the Senior Notes or such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Notes, as the case may be), provided, further, that this covenant does not apply to any Subsidiary that has properly been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with this Senior Note Indenture for so long as it continues to constitute an Unrestricted Subsidiary or to any Excluded Subsidiary for so long as it continues to constitute an Excluded Subsidiary. Section 4.17 PAYMENT FOR CONSENTS. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration, whether by way of interest, fee or otherwise, to any Holder of any Senior Notes for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid or is paid to all Holders of the Senior Notes that consent, waive or agree to amend in the time frame set forth in the solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement. Section 4.18 SALE AND LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; provided that the Company may enter into a sale and leaseback transaction if (i) the Company could have incurred Indebtedness in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt relating to such sale and leaseback transaction pursuant to Section 4.09 hereof and (ii) the gross cash proceeds of such sale and leaseback transaction are at least equal to the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Senior Note Trustee) of the property that is the subject of such sale and leaseback transaction and (iii) the transfer of assets in such sale and leaseback transaction is permitted by, and the Company applies the proceeds of such transaction in compliance with, Section 4.10 hereof. Section 4.19 CERTAIN COVENANTS TO BE SUSPENDED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS. The covenants set forth in Section 4.01 through Section 4.18, inclusive, of this Senior Note Indenture shall be applicable to the Company (and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries, as appropriate) except that during any period of time that (i) the ratings assigned to the Senior Notes by both Standard & Poor's Ratings Group ("S&P") and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's" and, together with S&P, the "Rating Agencies") are equal to or higher than BBB-- and Baa3, or the equivalents thereof, respectively (the "Investment Grade Ratings"), except subsequent to a Change of Control of the Company, and (ii) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Company and its Subsidiaries will not be subject to the provisions of this Senior Note Indenture described in Sections 4.07 through 4.11, inclusive, and Section 4.18, (collectively, the "Suspended Covenants"). In the event that the Company is not subject to the Suspended Covenants for any period of time as a result of the preceding sentence (a "Suspension Period") and, subsequently, one or both Rating Agencies withdraws its ratings or downgrades the ratings assigned to the Senior Notes below the required Investment Grade Ratings, then, from and after the date of such withdrawal or downgrade, the Company and its Subsidiaries will again be subject to the Suspended Covenants and compliance with the Suspended Covenants with respect to Restricted Payments made after the time of such withdrawal or downgrade will be calculated in accordance with the terms of Section 4.07 as if such covenant had been in effect during the entire period of time from the date of this Senior Note Indenture. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Senior Note Indenture, the continued existence, after the date of such withdrawal or downgrade, of facts and circumstances that were incurred or otherwise came into being during a Suspension Period shall not constitute a breach of any covenant set forth in this Senior Note Indenture or a Default or Event of Default hereunder. ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSORS Section 5.01 MERGER, CONSOLIDATION OR SALE OF ASSETS. The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate or merge with or into (whether or not the Company is the surviving corporation), or sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties or assets in one or more related transactions, to another Person unless (i) the Company is the surviving corporation or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made is a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (ii) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Senior Registration Rights Agreement, the Senior Notes and this Senior Note Indenture pursuant to a supplemental indenture in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Note Trustee; (iii) immediately before and after such transaction no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred; and (iv) except in the case of a merger of the Company with or into a Subsidiary, the Company or Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made will, immediately after such transaction after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, (A) be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof or (B) the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company or the entity or Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made would, immediately after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such transaction had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, not be less than such Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries immediately prior to such transaction. The Company may not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of its properties or assets, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person. The provisions of this Section 5.01 will not be applicable to a sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. Section 5.02 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION SUBSTITUTED. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 hereof, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Senior Note Indenture referring to the "Company" shall refer instead to the successor corporation and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Senior Note Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; provided, however, that the predecessor Company shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Senior Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Company's assets that meets the requirements of Section 5.01 hereof. ARTICLE 6 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES Section 6.01 EVENTS OF DEFAULT. An "Event of Default" occurs if: (a) the Company defaults in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Senior Notes and such default continues for a period of 30 days; (b) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Senior Notes when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon redemption (including in connection with an offer to purchase) or otherwise; (c) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Section 5.01; (d) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 30 days after notice to comply with the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 hereof; (e) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 60 days after notice to observe or perform any other covenant, representation, warranty or other agreement in this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes; (f) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries defaults under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Senior Note Indenture, which default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "Payment Default") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $20.0 million or more; (g) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $20.0 million (excluding amounts covered by insurance), which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (h) the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case, (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (iii) consents to the appointment of a custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (v) generally is not paying its debts as they become due; or (i) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (i) is for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case; (ii) appoints a custodian of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary or for all or substantially all of the property of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; or (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days; or (j) except as permitted by this Senior Note Indenture, any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. Section 6.02 ACCELERATION. If any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (g) or (h) of Section 6.01 hereof with respect to the Company, any Significant Subsidiary that is a Restricted Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary) occurs and is continuing, the Senior Note Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may declare all the Senior Notes to be due and payable immediately. Upon any such declaration, the Senior Notes shall become due and payable immediately. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in clause (g) or (h) of Section 6.01 hereof occurs with respect to the Company, any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all outstanding Senior Notes shall be due and payable without further action or notice. Holders of the Senior Notes may not enforce this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes except as provided in this Senior Note Indenture. In the case of any Event of Default occurring by reason of any willful action (or inaction) taken (or not taken) by or on behalf of the Company with the intention of avoiding payment of the premium that the Company would have had to pay if the Company then had elected to redeem the Senior Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of this Senior Note Indenture, an equivalent premium shall also become and be immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the Senior Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Senior Note Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with this Senior Note Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Senior Note Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. Section 6.03 OTHER REMEDIES. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Senior Note Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Senior Notes or this Senior Note Indenture. The Senior Note Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Senior Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Senior Note Trustee or any Holder of a Senior Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law. Section 6.04 WAIVER OF PAST DEFAULTS. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes then outstanding by notice to the Senior Note Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Senior Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under this Senior Note Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Senior Notes (including in connection with an offer to purchase); provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Senior Note Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Section 6.05 CONTROL BY MAJORITY. Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Senior Note Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Senior Note Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Senior Note Indenture that the Senior Note Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Senior Notes or that may involve the Senior Note Trustee in personal liability. SECTION 6.06 LIMITATION ON SUITS. A Holder of a Senior Note may pursue a remedy with respect to this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes only if: (a) the Holder of a Senior Note gives to the Senior Note Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default; (b) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes make a written request to the Senior Note Trustee to pursue the remedy; (c) such Holder of a Senior Note or Holders of Senior Notes offer and, if requested, provide to the Senior Note Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Senior Note Trustee against any loss, liability or expense; (d) the Senior Note Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer and, if requested, the provision of indemnity; and (e) during such 60-day period the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes do not give the Senior Note Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request. A Holder of a Senior Note may not use this Senior Note Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Senior Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Senior Note. SECTION 6.07 RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF SENIOR NOTES TO RECEIVE PAYMENT. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Senior Note Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Senior Note to receive payment of principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Senior Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Senior Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder. SECTION 6.08 COLLECTION SUIT BY SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b) occurs and is continuing, the Senior Note Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as Senior Note Trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on the Senior Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Note Trustee, its agents and counsel. SECTION 6.09 SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE MAY FILE PROOFS OF CLAIM. The Senior Note Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Senior Note Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Note Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Senior Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Senior Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Senior Note Trustee, and in the event that the Senior Note Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Senior Note Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Note Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Senior Note Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Note Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Senior Note Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Senior Note Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Senior Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Senior Note Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. SECTION 6.10 PRIORITIES. If the Senior Note Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following order: First: to the Senior Note Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Senior Note Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection; Second: to Holders of Senior Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Senior Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Senior Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any and interest, respectively; and Third: to the Company. The Senior Note Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Senior Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10. SECTION 6.11 UNDERTAKING FOR COSTS. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Senior Note Indenture or in any suit against the Senior Note Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Senior Note Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by the Senior Note Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Senior Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes. ARTICLE 7 SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE Section 7.01 DUTIES OF SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE. (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Senior Note Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Senior Note Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default: (i) the duties of the Senior Note Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Senior Note Indenture and the Senior Note Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Senior Note Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Senior Note Indenture against the Senior Note Trustee; and (ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Senior Note Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Senior Note Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Senior Note Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates of opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Senior Note Trustee, the Senior Note Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Senior Note Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). (c) The Senior Note Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section; (ii) the Senior Note Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Senior Note Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (iii) the Senior Note Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof. (d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Senior Note Indenture that in any way relates to the Senior Note Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) of this Section and Section 7.02. (e) No provision of this Senior Note Indenture shall require the Senior Note Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Senior Note Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Senior Note Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder shall have offered to the Senior Note Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. (f) The Senior Note Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Senior Note Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Senior Note Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Section 7.02 RIGHTS OF SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE. (a) The Senior Note Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Senior Note Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document. (b) Before the Senior Note Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both. The Senior Note Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Senior Note Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon. (c) The Senior Note Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care. (d) The Senior Note Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Senior Note Indenture. (e) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Senior Note Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company or any Guarantor shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company or Guarantor issuing such demand, request or notice. (f) The Senior Note Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Senior Note Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Senior Note Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction. Section 7.03 INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS OF SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE. The Senior Note Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Senior Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Senior Note Trustee. The Senior Note Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof. Section 7.04 SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE'S DISCLAIMER. The Senior Note Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Senior Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision of this Senior Note Indenture, it shall not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Senior Note Trustee, and it shall not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Senior Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Senior Notes or pursuant to this Senior Note Indenture other than its certificate of authentication. Section 7.05 NOTICE OF DEFAULTS. If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Senior Note Trustee, the Senior Note Trustee shall mail to Holders of Senior Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Senior Note, the Senior Note Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Senior Notes. Section 7.06 REPORTS BY SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE TO HOLDERS OF THE SENIOR NOTES. Within 60 days after each August 1 beginning with the August 1 following the date of this Senior Note Indenture, and for so long as Senior Notes remain outstanding, the Senior Note Trustee shall mail to the Holders of the Senior Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA ss. 313(a) (but if no event described in TIA ss. 313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted). The Senior Note Trustee also shall comply with TIA ss. 313(b)(2). The Senior Note Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA ss. 313(c). A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Senior Notes shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Senior Notes are listed in accordance with TIA ss. 313(d). The Company shall promptly notify the Senior Note Trustee when the Senior Notes are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom. Section 7.07 COMPENSATION AND INDEMNITY. The Company and the Guarantors shall pay to the Senior Note Trustee from time to time such compensation as agreed upon in writing for its acceptance of this Senior Note Indenture and services hereunder. The Senior Note Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a Senior Note Trustee of an express trust. The Company and the Guarantors shall reimburse the Senior Note Trustee promptly upon request for all disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Senior Note Trustee's agents and counsel. The Company and the Guarantors shall indemnify the Senior Note Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (including taxes other than taxes based upon the income of the Senior Note Trustee) incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Senior Note Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Senior Note Indenture against the Company and the Guarantors (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company and the Guarantors or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct. The Senior Note Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Senior Note Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company and the Guarantors of its obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Senior Note Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Senior Note Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The obligations of the Company and the Guarantors under this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Senior Note Indenture. To secure the Company's and the Guarantors' payment obligations in this Section, the Senior Note Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Senior Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Senior Note Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Senior Notes. Such Lien shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Senior Note Indenture. When the Senior Note Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or (h) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law. The Senior Note Trustee shall comply with the provisions of TIA ss. 313(b)(2) to the extent applicable. Section 7.08 REPLACEMENT OF SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE. A resignation or removal of the Senior Note Trustee and appointment of a successor Senior Note Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Senior Note Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section. The Senior Note Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company. The Holders of Senior Notes of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may remove the Senior Note Trustee by so notifying the Senior Note Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company may remove the Senior Note Trustee if: (a) the Senior Note Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof; (b) the Senior Note Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Senior Note Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law; (c) a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Senior Note Trustee or its property; or (d) the Senior Note Trustee becomes incapable of acting. If the Senior Note Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Senior Note Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Senior Note Trustee. Within one year after the successor Senior Note Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may appoint a successor Senior Note Trustee to replace the successor Senior Note Trustee appointed by the Company. If a successor Senior Note Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Senior Note Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Senior Note Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of Senior Notes of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Senior Note Trustee. If the Senior Note Trustee, after written request by any Holder of a Senior Note who has been a Holder of a Senior Note for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder of a Senior Note may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Senior Note Trustee and the appointment of a successor Senior Note Trustee. A successor Senior Note Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Senior Note Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Senior Note Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Senior Note Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Senior Note Trustee under this Senior Note Indenture. The successor Senior Note Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders of the Senior Notes. The retiring Senior Note Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Senior Note Trustee to the successor Senior Note Trustee, provided all sums owing to the Senior Note Trustee (including its agents and/or counsel) hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof. Notwithstanding replacement of the Senior Note Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 hereof shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Senior Note Trustee. Section 7.09 SUCCESSOR SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE BY MERGER, ETC. If the Senior Note Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Senior Note Trustee. Section 7.10 ELIGIBILITY; DISQUALIFICATION. There shall at all times be a Senior Note Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate Senior Note Trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50.0 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. This Senior Note Indenture shall always have a Senior Note Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA ss. 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Senior Note Trustee is subject to TIA ss. 310(b). Section 7.11 PREFERENTIAL COLLECTION OF CLAIMS AGAINST COMPANY. The Senior Note Trustee is subject to TIA ss. 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA ss. 311(b). A Senior Note Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA ss. 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. Section 7.12 SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE'S APPLICATION FOR INSTRUCTIONS FROM THE COMPANY. Any application by the Senior Note Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Senior Note Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Senior Note Trustee under this Senior Note Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Senior Note Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by, or omission of, the Senior Note Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to the taking of such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Senior Note Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted. ARTICLE 8 LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE Section 8.01 OPTION TO EFFECT LEGAL DEFEASANCE OR COVENANT DEFEASANCE. The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Senior Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8. Section 8.02 LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND DISCHARGE. Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Senior Notes and to have each Guarantor's obligation discharged with respect to its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "Legal Defeasance"). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Senior Notes, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Senior Note Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Senior Notes and this Senior Note Indenture (and the Senior Note Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Senior Notes to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.04 hereof, and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on such Senior Notes when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Senior Notes under Article 2 and Section 4.02 hereof, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Senior Note Trustee hereunder and the Company's obligations in connection therewith and (d) this Article 8. Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof. Section 8.03 COVENANT DEFEASANCE. Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company and each Guarantor shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from their obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.15, 4.16 and 4.17 hereof with respect to the outstanding Senior Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "Covenant Defeasance"), and the Senior Notes shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Senior Notes shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Senior Notes, the Company and each Guarantor may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Senior Note Indenture and such Senior Notes shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(d) through 6.01(f) hereof shall not constitute Events of Default. Section 8.04 CONDITIONS TO LEGAL OR COVENANT DEFEASANCE. The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof to the outstanding Senior Notes: In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance: (a) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Senior Note Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in United States dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the outstanding Senior Notes on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Senior Notes are being defeased to maturity or to a particular redemption date; (b) in the case of an election under Section 8.02 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Note Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Senior Note Trustee confirming that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Senior Note Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Senior Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred; (c) in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Note Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Senior Note Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Senior Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred; (d) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the incurrence of Indebtedness all or a portion of the proceeds of which will be used to defease the Senior Notes pursuant to this Article 8 concurrently with such incurrence) or insofar as Sections 6.01(g) or 6.01(h) hereof is concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit; (e) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Senior Note Indenture) to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound; (f) the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Note Trustee an Opinion of Counsel (which may be subject to customary exceptions) to the effect that after the 91st day following the deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally; (g) the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders over any other creditors of the Company or with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any creditors of the Company or others; and (h) the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for or relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with. Section 8.05 DEPOSITED MONEY AND GOVERNMENT SECURITIES TO BE HELD IN TRUST; OTHER MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Senior Note Trustee (or other qualifying Senior Note Trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the "Senior Note Trustee") pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Senior Notes shall be held in trust and applied by the Senior Note Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Senior Notes and this Senior Note Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Senior Note Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Senior Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Company and the Guarantors shall pay and indemnify the Senior Note Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Senior Notes. Anything in this Article 8 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Senior Note Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Senior Note Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(a) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. Section 8.06 REPAYMENT TO COMPANY. Any money deposited with the Senior Note Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Senior Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Senior Note shall thereafter, as a secured creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Senior Note Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as Senior Note Trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Senior Note Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company. Section 8.07 REINSTATEMENT. If the Senior Note Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Senior Note Indenture and the Senior Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Senior Note Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; provided, however, that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Senior Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Senior Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Senior Note Trustee or Paying Agent. ARTICLE 9 AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER Section 9.01 WITHOUT CONSENT OF HOLDERS OF SENIOR NOTES. Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Senior Note Indenture, the Company, the Guarantors and the Senior Note Trustee may amend or supplement this Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes without the consent of any Holder of a Senior Note: (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; (b) to provide for uncertificated Senior Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Senior Notes or to alter the provisions of Article 2 hereof (including the related definitions) in a manner that does not materially adversely affect any Holder; (c) to provide for the assumption of the Company's or a Guarantor's obligations to the Holders of the Senior Notes by a successor to the Company or a Guarantor pursuant to Article 5 or Article 10 hereof; (d) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Senior Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights hereunder of any Holder of the Senior Note; (e) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Senior Note Indenture under the TIA; or (f) to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental Senior Note Indenture and/or a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee with respect to the Senior Notes. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture, and upon receipt by the Senior Note Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of any amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Senior Note Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Senior Note Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Senior Note Indenture or otherwise. Section 9.02 WITH CONSENT OF HOLDERS OF SENIOR NOTES. Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company and the Senior Note Trustee may amend or supplement this Senior Note Indenture (including Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof), the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees and the Senior Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Senior Notes then outstanding voting as a single class (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Senior Notes), and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Senior Notes, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes voting as a single class (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Senior Notes). Section 2.08 hereof shall determine which Senior Notes are considered to be "outstanding" for purposes of this Section 9.02. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture, and upon the filing with the Senior Note Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Senior Note Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Senior Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Senior Note Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture unless such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture directly affects the Senior Note Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Senior Note Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Senior Note Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Senior Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Senior Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes then outstanding voting as a single class may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not (with respect to any Senior Notes held by a non-consenting Holder): (a) reduce the principal amount of Senior Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; (b) reduce the principal of or change the fixed maturity of any Senior Note or alter or waive any of the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Senior Notes except as provided above with respect to Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof; (c) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest, including default interest, on any Senior Note; (d) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Notes (except a rescission of acceleration of the Senior Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration); (e) make any Senior Note payable in money other than that stated in the Senior Notes; (f) make any change in the provisions of this Senior Note Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of Senior Notes to receive payments of principal of or premium, interest or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Notes; (g) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Senior Note (other than a payment required pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15); (h) make any change in Section 6.04 or 6.07 hereof or in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions; or (i) release any Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee or this Senior Note Indenture, except in accordance with the terms of this Senior Note Indenture. Section 9.03 COMPLIANCE WITH TRUST INDENTURE ACT. Every amendment or supplement to this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes shall be set forth in a amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect. Section 9.04 REVOCATION AND EFFECT OF CONSENTS. Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Senior Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Senior Note and every subsequent Holder of a Senior Note or portion of a Senior Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Senior Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Senior Note. However, any such Holder of a Senior Note or subsequent Holder of a Senior Note may revoke the consent as to its Senior Note if the Senior Note Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the waiver, supplement or amendment becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder. Section 9.05 NOTATION ON OR EXCHANGE OF SENIOR NOTES. The Senior Note Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Senior Note thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for all Senior Notes may issue and the Senior Note Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Senior Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver. Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Senior Note shall not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver. Section 9.06 SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE TO SIGN AMENDMENTS, ETC. The Senior Note Trustee shall sign any amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Senior Note Trustee. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplemental Senior Note Indenture until the Board of Directors approves it. In executing any amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Note Trustee shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04 hereof, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended or supplemental Senior Note Indenture is authorized or permitted by this Senior Note Indenture. ARTICLE 10 SENIOR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES Section 10.01 GUARANTEE. Subject to this Article 10, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Senior Note authenticated and delivered by the Senior Note Trustee and to the Senior Note Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (a) the principal of and interest on the Senior Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Senior Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Senior Note Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Senior Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection. The Guarantors hereby agree that their obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Senior Notes or this Senior Note Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Senior Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Senior Notes and this Senior Note Indenture. If any Holder or the Senior Note Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors or any custodian, Senior Note Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Senior Note Trustee or such Holder, this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. Each Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Senior Note Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 hereof for the purposes of this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. Section 10.02 LIMITATION ON GUARANTOR LIABILITY. Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Senior Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Senior Note Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee and this Article 10 shall be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article 10, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. Section 10.03 EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF SENIOR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE. To evidence its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such Senior Subsidiary Guarantee substantially in the form included in Exhibit E shall be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Senior Note authenticated and delivered by the Senior Note Trustee and that this Senior Note Indenture shall be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by its President or one of its Vice Presidents. Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01 shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Senior Note a notation of such Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. If an Officer whose signature is on this Senior Note Indenture or on the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Senior Note Trustee authenticates the Senior Note on which a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless. The delivery of any Senior Note by the Senior Note Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in this Senior Note Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors. In the event that the Company creates or acquires any new Subsidiaries subsequent to the date of this Senior Note Indenture, if required by Section 4.16 hereof, the Company shall cause such Subsidiaries to execute supplemental Senior Note Indentures to this Senior Note Indenture and Senior Subsidiary Guarantees in accordance with Section 4.16 hereof and this Article 10, to the extent applicable. Section 10.04 GUARANTORS MAY CONSOLIDATE, ETC. ON CERTAIN TERMS. No Guarantor may consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor unless: (a) subject to Section 10.04 hereof, the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than a Guarantor or the Company) unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental Senior Note Indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Note Trustee, under the Senior Notes, this Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Registration Rights Agreement and the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (c) the Company would be permitted, immediately after giving effect to such transaction, to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof. In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental Senior Note Indenture, executed and delivered to the Senior Note Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Senior Note Trustee, of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee endorsed upon the Senior Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Senior Note Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Senior Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Senior Note Trustee. All the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Senior Note Indenture as the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Senior Note Indenture as though all of such Senior Subsidiary Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 hereof, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in this Senior Note Indenture or in any of the Senior Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor. Section 10.05 RELEASES FOLLOWING SALE OF ASSETS. In the event of (a) a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, (b) a sale or other disposition of all of the capital stock of any Guarantor or (c) the designation of a Guarantor as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with the terms of this Senior Note Indenture, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Senior Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof. Upon delivery by the Company to the Senior Note Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Senior Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof, the Senior Note Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Senior Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Senior Note Indenture as provided in this Article 10. ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS Section 11.01 TRUST INDENTURE ACT CONTROLS. If any provision of this Senior Note Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA ss. 318(c), the imposed duties shall control. Section 11.02 NOTICES. Any notice or communication by the Company, any Guarantor or the Senior Note Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address. If to the Company and/or any Guarantor: Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: Treasurer With a copy to: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100 Chicago, Illinois 60606 Telecopier No.: (312) 407-0411 Attention: Brian W. Duwe If to the Senior Note Trustee: The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Telecopier No.: (212) 815-5915 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration The Company, any Guarantor or the Senior Note Trustee, by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery. Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail postage prepaid, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA ss. 313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it. If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Senior Note Trustee and each Agent at the same time. Section 11.03 COMMUNICATION BY HOLDERS OF SENIOR NOTES WITH OTHER HOLDERS OF SENIOR NOTES. Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA ss. 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes. The Company, the Senior Note Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA ss. 312(c). Section 11.04 CERTIFICATE AND OPINION AS TO CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Senior Note Trustee to take any action under this Senior Note Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Senior Note Trustee: (a) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Note Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 11.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Senior Note Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and (b) except with respect to the initial issuance of the Senior Notes, an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Note Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 11.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied. Section 11.05 STATEMENTS REQUIRED IN CERTIFICATE. Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Senior Note Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA ss. 314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA ss. 314(e) and shall include: (a) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (c) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied. Section 11.06 RULES BY SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE AND AGENTS. The Senior Note Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions. Section 11.07 NO PERSONAL LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND STOCKHOLDERS. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Senior Notes, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees, this Senior Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Senior Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Senior Notes. Section 11.08 GOVERNING LAW. THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE, THE SENIOR NOTES AND THE SENIOR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. Section 11.09 NO ADVERSE INTERPRETATION OF OTHER AGREEMENTS. This Senior Note Indenture may not be used to interpret any other Senior Note Indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such Senior Note Indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Senior Note Indenture. Section 11.10 SUCCESSORS. All agreements of the Company in this Senior Note Indenture and the Senior Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Senior Note Trustee in this Senior Note Indenture shall bind its successors. Section 11.11 SEVERABILITY. In case any provision in this Senior Note Indenture or in the Senior Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 11.12 COUNTERPART ORIGINALS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Senior Note Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. Section 11.13 TABLE OF CONTENTS, HEADINGS, ETC. The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Senior Note Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Senior Note Indenture and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof. [Signatures on following page]
SIGNATURES Dated as of August 10, 1998 Amended and Restated as of December 19, 2002 THE COMPANY: BALL CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison --------------------------------------- Title:Vice President and Treasurer --------------------------------------- THE SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS: BALL AEROSPACE AND TECHNOLOGIES CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL ASIA SERVICES LIMITED (a successor to Ball Asia Pacific Limited) By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL GLASS CONTAINER CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL HOLDINGS CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL METAL BEVERAGE CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ David A. Westerlund ------------------------------------------ Name: David A. Westerlund ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President ----------------------------------- BALL METAL FOOD CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL METAL PACKAGING SALES CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL PACKAGING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL PLASTIC CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL TECHNOLOGIES HOLDING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BG HOLDINGS I, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BG HOLDINGS II, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- EFRATOM HOLDING, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- LATAS DE ALUMINIO BALL, INC. (formerly known as Latas de Aluminio Reynolds, Inc.) By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Treasurer ----------------------------------- BALL PAN-EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison ----------------------------------- Title: Treasurer ----------------------------------- THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Note Trustee By: /s/ Van K. Brown ------------------------------------------ Name: Van K. Brown ----------------------------------- Title: Vice President -----------------------------------
EXHIBIT A1 (Face of Senior Note) [Insert the Global Senior Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Senior Note Indenture] [Insert the Private Placement Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Senior Note Indenture] CUSIP/CINS 7 3/4% [Series A] [Series B] Senior Notes due 2006 No. $ --------- ----------- Ball Corporation promises to pay to ____________ or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________________ Dollars on August 1, 2006. Interest Payment Dates: February 1 and August 1 Record Dates: January 15 and July 15 BALL CORPORATION By: ------------------------- Name: Title: This is one of the [Global] Senior Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Senior Note Indenture: Dated: August 10, 1998 THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Note Trustee By: --------------------------------------- Name: Title:
(Back of Senior Note) 7 3/4% [Series A] [Series B] Senior Notes due 2006 Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Note Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated. 1. INTEREST. Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Senior Note at 7 3/4% per annum from August 10, 1998 until maturity and shall pay the Liquidated Damages payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Senior Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company will pay interest and Liquidated Damages semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest on the Senior Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Senior Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be February 1, 1999. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Senior Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 2. METHOD OF PAYMENT. The Company will pay interest on the Senior Notes (except defaulted interest) and Liquidated Damages to the Persons who are registered Holders of Senior Notes at the close of business on the January 15 or July 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Senior Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Senior Note Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages on the Senior Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Liquidated Damages may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; provided that all payments of principal, premium, interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, with respect to Notes the Holders of which have given wire transfer instructions to the Trustee will be required to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. 3. PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR. Initially, The Bank of New York, the Senior Note Trustee under the Senior Note Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity. 4. SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE. The Company issued the Senior Notes under an Senior Note Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998 ("Senior Note Indenture") between the Company and the Senior Note Trustee. The terms of the Senior Notes include those stated in the Senior Note Indenture and those made part of the Senior Note Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The Senior Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Senior Note Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Senior Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Senior Note Indenture, the provisions of the Senior Note Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Senior Notes are obligations of the Company limited to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount. 5. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. (a) The Senior Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole but not in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice. (b) The Senior Notes will be redeemable at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus the applicable Senior Make-Whole Premium, plus, to the extent not included in the Senior Make-Whole Premium, accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the date of redemption. For purposes of the foregoing, "Senior Make-Whole Premium" means, with respect to a Senior Note, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the date of such redemption of each dollar of principal of such Senior Note being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) that would have been payable in respect of such dollar if such redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, such principal and interest at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Yield (determined on the Business Day immediately preceding the date of such redemption) plus 0.5% per annum, from the respective dates on which such principal and interest would have been payable if such redemption had not been made, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of such Senior Note being redeemed. (c) Any redemption pursuant to this Paragraph 5 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Senior Note Indenture. 6. MANDATORY REDEMPTION. Except as set forth in Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Senior Notes. 7. REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER. (a) If there is a Change of Control, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Senior Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 15 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Senior Note Indenture. (b) If the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary consummates any Asset Sales and the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20.0 million, the Company shall commence an offer to all Holders of Senior Notes (a "Senior Asset Sale Offer") pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Senior Note Indenture to purchase the maximum principal amount of Senior Notes that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date fixed for the closing of such offer, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Senior Note Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Senior Notes tendered pursuant to a Senior Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company (or such Subsidiary) may use such deficiency for any purpose not prohibited by the Senior Note Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Senior Note Trustee shall select the Senior Notes to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Holders of Senior Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase will receive a Senior Asset Sale Offer from the Company prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Senior Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Senior Notes. 8. NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Senior Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Senior Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Senior Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Senior Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. 9. DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE. The Senior Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Senior Notes may be registered and Senior Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Senior Note Indenture. The Registrar and the Senior Note Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Senior Note Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Note or portion of a Senior Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Senior Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Senior Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date. 10. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS. The registered Holder of a Senior Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes. 11. AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER. Subject to certain exceptions, the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes voting as a single class, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Senior Note, the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Senior Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Senior Notes, to provide for the assumption of the Company's or Guarantor's obligations to Holders of the Senior Notes in case of a merger or consolidation, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Senior Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Senior Note Indenture of any such Holder, to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Senior Note Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act or to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental Senior Note Indenture to the Senior Note Indenture and/or a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee with respect to the Senior Notes. 12. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES. An "EVENT OF DEFAULT" occurs if: (i) the Company defaults in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Senior Notes and such default continues for a period of 30 days; (ii) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Senior Notes when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon redemption (including in connection with an offer to purchase) or otherwise; (iii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Sections 5.01; (iv) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply for 30 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Note Trustee with any of the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture; (v) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to observe or perform any other covenant, representation, warranty or other agreement in the Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes for 60 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Note Trustee; (vi) a default occurs under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Senior Note Indenture, which default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "Payment Default") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $20.0 million or more; (vii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $20.0 million (excluding amounts covered by insurance), which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (viii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency occur with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law; or (ix) except as permitted by the Senior Note Indenture, any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Senior Note Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may declare all the Senior Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding Senior Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes except as provided in the Senior Note Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may direct the Senior Note Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Senior Note Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Senior Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes then outstanding by notice to the Senior Note Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Senior Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Senior Note Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Senior Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Senior Note Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Senior Note Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Senior Note Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. 13. SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY. The Senior Note Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Senior Note Trustee. 14. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company or any of the Guarantors, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Senior Notes, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Senior Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Senior Notes. 15. AUTHENTICATION. This Senior Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Senior Note Trustee or an authenticating agent. 16. ABBREVIATIONS. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act). 17. ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR NOTES AND RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR NOTES. In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Senior Notes under the Senior Note Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Senior Notes and Restricted Definitive Senior Notes shall have all the rights set forth in the Senior Registration Rights Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998, between the Company and the parties named on the signature pages thereof (the "Senior Registration Rights Agreement"). 18. CUSIP NUMBERS. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Senior Notes and the Senior Note Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Senior Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Senior Note Indenture and/or the Senior Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to: Ball Corporation Colorado Office Center 9300 West 108th Circle Broomfield, CO 80021-3682 Attention: Chief Financial Officer
ASSIGNMENT FORM To assign this Senior Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Senior Note to ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. no.) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint _______________________________________________________ to transfer this Senior Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. ________________________________________________________________________________ Date: ___________________________ Your signature:______________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Note) Tax Identification No.:______________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:_________________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase If you want to elect to have this Senior Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture, check the box below: [ ] Section 4.10 [ ] Section 4.15 If you want to elect to have only part of the Senior Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $_____________ Date: ___________________________ Your signature:______________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Note) Tax Identification No.:______________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:_________________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS IN THE GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE (1) The following exchanges of a part of this Global Senior Note for an interest in another Global Senior Note or for a Definitive Senior Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Senior Note or Definitive Senior Note for an interest in this Global Senior Note, have been made: 1 This should be included only if the Senior Note is issued in global form.
EXHIBIT A-2 (Face of Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note) ================================================================================ THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SENIOR NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE PAYMENT OF INTEREST HEREON. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SENIOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SENIOR NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISION OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (1)(a) TO A PERSON WHO THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (b) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A FOREIGN PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (d) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE COMPANY OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN (A) ABOVE.
CUSIP/CINS 7 3/4% SERIES A SENIOR NOTES DUE 2006 NO. $ -------------- ---------- BALL CORPORATION promises to pay to ____________ or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________________ Dollars on August 1, 2006. Interest Payment Dates: February 1, and August 1 Record Dates: January 15 and July 15 BALL CORPORATION By: --------------------------- Name: Title: This is one of the [Global] Senior Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Senior Note Indenture: Dated: August 10, 1998 THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Note Trustee By: -------------------------------- Name: Title:
(Back of Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note) 7 3/4% Series A Senior Notes Due 2006 Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Note Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated. 1. INTEREST. Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Senior Note at 7 3/4% per annum from August 10, 1998 until maturity and shall pay the Liquidated Damages payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Senior Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company will pay interest and Liquidated Damages semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest on the Senior Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Senior Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be February 1, 1999. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Senior Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Until this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note is exchanged for one or more Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Notes, the Holder hereof shall not be entitled to receive payments of interest hereon; until so exchanged in full, this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note shall in all other respects be entitled to the same benefits as other Senior Notes under the Senior Note Indenture. 2. METHOD OF PAYMENT. The Company will pay interest on the Senior Notes (except defaulted interest) and Liquidated Damages to the Persons who are registered Holders of Senior Notes at the close of business on the January 15 or July 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Senior Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Senior Note Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages on the Senior Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Liquidated Damages may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; provided that all payments of principal, premium, interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, with respect to Notes the Holders of which have given wire transfer instructions to the Trustee will be required to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. 3. PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR. Initially, The Bank of New York, the Senior Note Trustee under the Senior Note Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity. 4. SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE. The Company issued the Senior Notes under an Senior Note Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998 ("Senior Note Indenture") between the Company and the Senior Note Trustee. The terms of the Senior Notes include those stated in the Senior Note Indenture and those made part of the Senior Note Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The Senior Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Senior Note Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Senior Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Senior Note Indenture, the provisions of the Senior Note Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Senior Notes are obligations of the Company limited to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount. 5. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. (a) The Senior Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole but not in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice. (b) The Senior Notes will be redeemable at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus the applicable Senior Make-Whole Premium, plus, to the extent not included in the Senior Make-Whole Premium, accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the date of redemption. For purposes of the foregoing, "Senior Make-Whole Premium" means, with respect to a Senior Note, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the date of such redemption of each dollar of principal of such Senior Note being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) that would have been payable in respect of such dollar if such redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, such principal and interest at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Yield (determined on the Business Day immediately preceding the date of such redemption) plus 0.5% per annum, from the respective dates on which such principal and interest would have been payable if such redemption had not been made, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of such Senior Note being redeemed. (c) Any redemption pursuant to this Paragraph 5 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Senior Note Indenture. 6. MANDATORY REDEMPTION. Except as set forth in Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Senior Notes. 7. REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER (a) If there is a Change of Control, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Senior Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 15 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Senior Note Indenture. (b) If the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary consummates any Asset Sales and the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20.0 million, the Company shall commence an offer to all Holders of Senior Notes (a "Senior Asset Sale Offer") pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Senior Note Indenture to purchase the maximum principal amount of Senior Notes that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date fixed for the closing of such offer, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Senior Note Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Senior Notes tendered pursuant to a Senior Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company (or such Subsidiary) may use such deficiency for any purpose not prohibited by the Senior Note Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Senior Note Trustee shall select the Senior Notes to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Holders of Senior Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase will receive a Senior Asset Sale Offer from the Company prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Senior Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Senior Notes. 8. NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Senior Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Senior Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Senior Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Senior Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. 9. DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE. The Senior Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Senior Notes may be registered and Senior Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Senior Note Indenture. The Registrar and the Senior Note Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Senior Note Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Note or portion of a Senior Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Senior Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Senior Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date. This Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note is exchangeable in whole or in part for one or more Global Senior Notes only (i) on or after the termination of the 40-day restricted period (as defined in Regulation S) and (ii) upon presentation of certificates (accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel, if applicable) required by Article 2 of the Senior Note Indenture. Upon exchange of this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note for one or more Global Senior Notes, the Senior Note Trustee shall cancel this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Note. 10. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS. The registered Holder of a Senior Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes. 11. AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER. Subject to certain exceptions, the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes voting as a single class, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Senior Note, the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Senior Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Senior Notes, to provide for the assumption of the Company's or Guarantor's obligations to Holders of the Senior Notes in case of a merger or consolidation, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Senior Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Senior Note Indenture of any such Holder, to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Senior Note Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act or to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental Senior Note Indenture to the Senior Note Indenture and/or a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee with respect to the Senior Notes. 12. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES. An "Event of Default" occurs if: (i) the Company defaults in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Senior Notes and such default continues for a period of 30 days; (ii) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Senior Notes when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon redemption (including in connection with an offer to purchase) or otherwise; (iii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Sections 5.01; (iv) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply for 30 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Note Trustee with any of the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture; (v) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to observe or perform any other covenant, representation, warranty or other agreement in the Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes for 60 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Note Trustee; (vi) a default occurs under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Senior Note Indenture, which default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "Payment Default") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $20.0 million or more; (vii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $20.0 million (excluding amounts covered by insurance), which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (viii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency occur with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law; or (ix) except as permitted by the Senior Note Indenture, any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Senior Note Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may declare all the Senior Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding Senior Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Senior Note Indenture or the Senior Notes except as provided in the Senior Note Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may direct the Senior Note Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Senior Note Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Senior Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes then outstanding by notice to the Senior Note Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Senior Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Senior Note Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Senior Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Senior Note Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Senior Note Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Senior Note Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. 13. SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY. The Senior Note Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Senior Note Trustee. 14. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company or any of the Guarantors, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Senior Notes, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Senior Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Senior Notes. 15. AUTHENTICATION. This Senior Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Senior Note Trustee or an authenticating agent. 16. ABBREVIATIONS. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act). 17. ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR NOTES AND RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR NOTES. In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Senior Notes under the Senior Note Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Senior Notes and Restricted Definitive Senior Notes shall have all the rights set forth in the Senior Registration Rights Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998, between the Company and the parties named on the signature pages thereof (the "Senior Registration Rights Agreement"). 18. CUSIP NUMBERS. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Senior Notes and the Senior Note Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Senior Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Senior Note Indenture and/or the Senior Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to: Ball Corporation Colorado Office Center 9300 West 108th Circle Broomfield, CO 80021-3682 Attention: Chief Financial Officer
ASSIGNMENT FORM To assign this Senior Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Senior Note to ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. no.) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint _______________________________________________________ to transfer this Senior Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. ________________________________________________________________________________ Date: ___________________________ Your signature:______________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Note) Tax Identification No.:______________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:_________________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase If you want to elect to have this Senior Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture, check the box below: [ ] Section 4.10 [ ] Section 4.15 If you want to elect to have only part of the Senior Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.15 of the Senior Note Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $_____________ Date: ___________________________ Your signature:______________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Note) Tax Identification No.:______________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:_________________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS IN THE GLOBAL SENIOR NOTE (1) The following exchanges of a part of this Global Senior Note for an interest in another Global Senior Note or for a Definitive Senior Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Senior Note or Definitive Senior Note for an interest in this Global Senior Note, have been made:
EXHIBIT B FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 7 3/4% Senior Notes due 2006 (CUSIP ) --------------------------------------------------------- Reference is hereby made to the Senior Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998 (the "SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE"), between Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York, as Senior Note Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Senior Note Indenture. ____________________, (the "Transferor") owns and proposes to transfer the Senior Note[s] or interest in such Senior Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $_____________ in such Senior Note[s] or interests (the "Transfer"), to _________________ (the "Transferee"), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that: [CHECK ALL THAT APPLY] 1. [ ] Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Senior Note or a Definitive Senior Note pursuant to Rule 144A. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Senior Note and/or the Definitive Senior Note and in the Senior Note Indenture and the Securities Act. 2. [ ] Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Temporary Regulation S Global Senior Note, the Regulation S Global Senior Note or a Definitive Senior Note pursuant to Regulation S. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act and, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Senior Note, the Temporary Regulation S Global Senior Note and/or the Definitive Senior Note and in the Senior Note Indenture and the Securities Act. 3. [ ] Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Senior Note or a Definitive Senior Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S. The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Senior Notes and Restricted Definitive Senior Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one): (a) [ ] such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or (b) [ ] such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or (c) [ ] such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or (d) [ ] such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Senior Note or Restricted Definitive Senior Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Senior Note Indenture and (2) if such Transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Senior Notes at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the IAI Global Senior Note and/or the Definitive Senior Notes and in the Senior Note Indenture and the Securities Act. 4. [ ] Check if Transferee will take Delivery of a Beneficial Interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note. (a) [ ] Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Senior Note Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Senior Notes, on Restricted Definitive Senior Notes and in the Senior Note Indenture. (b) [ ] Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Senior Note Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Senior Notes, on Restricted Definitive Senior Notes and in the Senior Note Indenture. (c) [ ] Check if Transfer is Pursuant to other exemption. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Senior Note Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Senior Notes or Restricted Definitive Senior Notes and in the Senior Note Indenture. This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company. _________________________________ [Insert Name of Transferor] By: Name: Title: Dated:____________________, _____
ANNEX A TO CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER 1. The Transferor owns and proposes to transfer the following: [CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)] (a) [ ] a beneficial interest in the: (i) [ ] 144A Global Senior Note (CUSIP _____), or (ii) [ ] Regulation S Global Senior Note (CUSIP _____), or (iii) [ ] IAI Global Senior Note (CUSIP _____); or (b) [ ] a Restricted Definitive Senior Note. 2. After the Transfer the Transferee will hold: [CHECK ONE] (a) [ ] a beneficial interest in the: (i) [ ] 144A Global Senior Note (CUSIP _____), or (ii) [ ] Regulation S Global Senior Note (CUSIP _____), or (iii) [ ] IAI Global Senior Note (CUSIP _____); or (iv) [ ] Unrestricted Global Senior Note (CUSIP _____); or (b) [ ] a Restricted Definitive Senior Note; or (c) [ ] an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note, in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture.
EXHIBIT C FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF EXCHANGE Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 7 3/4% Senior Notes due 2006 (CUSIP ) ------------------------------------------------ Reference is hereby made to the Senior Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998 (the "Senior Note Indenture"), between Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York, as Senior Note Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Senior Note Indenture. _________________________, (the "Owner") owns and proposes to exchange the Senior Note[s] or interest in such Senior Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $_______________ in such Senior Note[s] or interests (the "Exchange"). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that: 1. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Senior Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Senior Note for Unrestricted Definitive Senior Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note (a) [ ] Check if Exchange is from Beneficial Interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note to Beneficial Interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Senior Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (b) [ ] Check if Exchange is from Beneficial Interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Senior Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Senior Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Senior Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (c) [ ] Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Senior Note to Beneficial Interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Senior Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Senior Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (d) [ ] Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Senior Note to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Senior Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Senior Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Senior Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. 2. Exchange of Restricted Definitive Senior Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Notes for Restricted Definitive Senior Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Notes (a) [ ] Check if Exchange is from Beneficial Interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note to Restricted Definitive Senior Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note for a Restricted Definitive Senior Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Senior Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Senior Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Senior Note and in the Senior Note Indenture and the Securities Act. (b) [ ] Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Senior Note to Beneficial Interest in a Restricted Global Senior Note. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Senior Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] [ ] 144A Global Senior Note, [ ] Regulation S Global Senior Note, [ ] IAI Global Senior Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Senior Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Senior Note and in the Senior Note Indenture and the Securities Act. This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company. --------------------------------- [Insert Name of Owner] By: ____________________________ Name: Title: Dated:____________________, _____
EXHIBIT D FORM OF CERTIFICATE FROM ACQUIRING INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 7 3/4% Senior Notes due 2006 (CUSIP ) ------------------------------------------------ Reference is hereby made to the Senior Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998 (the "Senior Note Indenture"), between Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York, as Senior Note Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Senior Note Indenture. In connection with our proposed purchase of $____________ aggregate principal amount of: (a) [ ] a beneficial interest in a Global Senior Note, or (b) [ ] a Definitive Senior Note, we confirm that: 1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Senior Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Senior Note Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Senior Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). 2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Senior Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Senior Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Senior Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (c) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and, if such transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Senior Notes, at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Senior Note or beneficial interest in a Global Senior Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein. 3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Senior Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Senior Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect. We further understand that any subsequent transfer by us of the Senior Notes or beneficial interest therein acquired by us must be effected through one of the Placement Agents. 4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Senior Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment. 5. We are acquiring the Senior Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion. You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. ____________________________________ [Insert Name of Accredited Investor] By:______________________________ Name: Title: Dated:____________________, _____
EXHIBIT E FORM OF NOTATION OF SENIOR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Senior Note Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Senior Note Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Senior Note Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998 (the "Senior Note Indenture") among Ball Corporation, the Guarantors listed on Schedule I thereto and The Bank of New York, as Senior Note Trustee (the "Senior Note Trustee"), (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes (as defined in the Senior Note Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal and premium, and, to the extent permitted by law, interest, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Senior Note Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Senior Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Senior Notes and to the Senior Note Trustee pursuant to the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee and the Senior Note Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 10 of the Senior Note Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Senior Note Indenture for the precise terms of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. Each Holder of a Senior Note, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Senior Note Trustee, on behalf of such Holder, to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in the Senior Note Indenture and (c) appoints the Senior Note Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for such purpose; provided, however, that the Indebtedness evidenced by this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall cease to be so subordinated and subject in right of payment upon any defeasance of this Senior Note in accordance with the provisions of the Senior Note Indenture. [Name of Guarantor(s)] By: ____________________________ Name: _________________________ Title: ________________________
EXHIBIT F FORM OF SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE TO BE DELIVERED BY SUBSEQUENT GUARANTORS SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE (this "Supplemental Senior Note Indenture"), dated as of ________________, among __________________ (the "Guaranteeing Subsidiary"), a subsidiary of Ball Corporation (or its permitted successor), an Indiana corporation (the "Company"), the Company, the other Guarantors (as defined in the Senior Note Indenture referred to herein) and The Bank of New York, as Senior Note Trustee under the Senior Note Indenture referred to below (the "Senior Note Trustee"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Senior Note Trustee a Senior Note Indenture (the "Senior Note Indenture"), dated as of August 10, 1998 providing for the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of up to $300.0 million of 7 3/4% Senior Notes due 2006 (the "Senior Notes"); WHEREAS, the Senior Note Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Senior Note Trustee a supplemental Senior Note Indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's Obligations under the Senior Notes and the Senior Note Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "Senior Subsidiary Guarantee"); and WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Note Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Senior Note Indenture. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Senior Note Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Senior Notes as follows: 1. CAPITALIZED TERMS. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Note Indenture. 2. AGREEMENT TO GUARANTEE. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows: (a) Along with all Guarantors named in the Senior Note Indenture, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Senior Note authenticated and delivered by the Senior Note Trustee and to the Senior Note Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (i) the principal of and interest on the Senior Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Senior Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Senior Note Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Senior Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. (b) The obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Senior Notes or the Senior Note Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Senior Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. (c) The following is hereby waived: diligence presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever. (d) This Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Senior Notes and the Senior Note Indenture. (e) If any Holder or the Senior Note Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, Senior Note Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Senior Note Trustee or such Holder, this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. (f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. (g) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Senior Note Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the Senior Note Indenture for the purposes of this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the Senior Note Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. (h) The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. (i) Pursuant to Section 10.04 of the Senior Note Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and any other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 10 of the Senior Note Indenture shall result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. 3. EXECUTION AND DELIVERY. Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Senior Note a notation of such Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. 4. GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY MAY CONSOLIDATE, ETC. ON CERTAIN TERMS. (a) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another corporation, Person or entity whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor unless: (i) subject to Section 10.04 of the Senior Note Indenture, the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than a Guarantor or the Company) unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental Senior Note Indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Note Trustee, under the Senior Notes, the Senior Note Indenture and the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; and (ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists. (b) In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor corporation, by supplemental Senior Note Indenture, executed and delivered to the Senior Note Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Senior Note Trustee, of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee endorsed upon the Senior Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Senior Note Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor corporation shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor corporation thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Senior Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Senior Note Trustee. All the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the Senior Note Indenture as the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the Senior Note Indenture as though all of such Senior Subsidiary Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. (c) Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 of the Senior Note Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the Senior Note Indenture or in any of the Senior Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor. 5. RELEASES (a) In the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all to the capital stock of any Guarantor, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Senior Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Senior Note Indenture. Upon delivery by the Company to the Senior Note Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Senior Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Senior Note Indenture, the Senior Note Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. (b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Senior Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the Senior Note Indenture as provided in Article 10 of the Senior Note Indenture. 6. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Senior Notes, any Senior Subsidiary Guarantees, the Senior Note Indenture or this Supplemental Senior Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Senior Notes by accepting a Senior Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Senior Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the SEC that such a waiver is against public policy. 7. NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN. THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 8. COUNTERPARTS The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Senior Note Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. 9. EFFECT OF HEADINGS. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 10. THE SENIOR NOTE TRUSTEE. The Senior Note Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Senior Note Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Senior Note Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written. Dated: _________________________ [GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY] By:____________________________ Name: Title: BALL CORPORATION By: _____________________________ Name: Title: [EXISTING GUARANTORS] By: _______________________________ Name: Title: THE BANK OF NEW YORK as Senior Note Trustee By: __________________________________________ Name: Title:
SCHEDULE I SCHEDULE OF GUARANTORS The following schedule lists each Guarantor under the Senior Note Indenture as of the Date of this Senior Note Indenture: 1. Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation 2. Ball Asia Services Limited, a Delaware corporation (and a successor to Ball Asia Pacific Limited, a Colorado corporation) 3. Ball Glass Container Corporation, a Delaware corporation 4. Ball Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation 5. Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 6. Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation 7. Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation 8. Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation 9. Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 10. Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation 11. Ball Technology Services Corporation, a California corporation 12. BG Holdings I, Inc., a Delaware corporation 13. BG Holdings II, Inc., a Delaware corporation 14. Efratom Holding, Inc., a Colorado corporation 15. Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly known as Latas de Aluminio Reynolds, Inc.) 16. Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation

EXHIBIT 4.4 =============================================================================== BALL CORPORATION and GUARANTORS Parties Hereto ------------------------------------- $250,000,000 SERIES A AND SERIES B 8 1/4% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2008 -------------------------------------------- --------------------------- AMENDED AND RESTATED SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE INDENTURE DATED AS OF AUGUST 10, 1998 AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT DATED AS OF DECEMBER 19, 2002 --------------------------- THE BANK OF NEW YORK Senior Subordinated Note Trustee ===============================================================================
SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE dated as of August 10, 1998, and amended and restated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "COMPANY"), Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Asia Services Limited, a Delaware corporation (as successor to Ball Asia Pacific Limited, a Colorado corporation), Ball Glass Container Corporation, a Delaware corporation, Ball Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Technology Services Corporation, a California corporation, BG Holdings I, Inc., a Delaware corporation, BG Holdings II, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Efratom Holding, Inc., a Colorado corporation, Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly known as Latas de Aluminio Reynolds, Inc.), and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (collectively, the "GUARANTORS") and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE"). References in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to the "date hereof" or any other reference to the date of this Senior Note Subordinated Indenture shall refer to August 10, 1998, and shall not refer to the date of the amendment and restatement. The Company and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the 8 1/4% Series A Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 (the "SERIES A SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES") and the 8 1/4% Series B Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 (the "SERIES B SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTEs" and, together with the Series A Senior Subordinated Notes, the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES"): ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE SECTION 1.01. DEFINITIONS. "144A GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a global note in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto bearing the Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A. "ACQUIRED DEBT" means, with respect to any specified Person, (i) Indebtedness of any other Person (a) existing at the time such other Person is merged with or into or became a Restricted Subsidiary of such specified Person or is otherwise acquired by such specified Person or (b) assumed in connection with the purchase of all or substantially all the assets of such other Person, including, without limitation, Indebtedness incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, such other Person merging with or into, acquiring or becoming a Restricted Subsidiary of such specified Person, and (ii) Indebtedness secured by a Lien encumbering any asset acquired by such specified Person. "ACQUISITION" means the acquisition by the Company and Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp. of substantially all the assets of the North American beverage can business of Reynolds Metals Company. "ADDITIONAL ASSETS" means (i) any property or assets (other than Capital Stock, Indebtedness or rights to receive payments over a period greater than 180 days) that is usable by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in a Permitted Business or (ii) the Capital Stock of a Person that is at the time, or becomes, a Restricted Subsidiary as a result of the acquisition of such Capital Stock by the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary. "AFFILIATE" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; provided that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a Person shall be deemed to be control. "AGENT" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar. "APPLICABLE PROCEDURES" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Senior Subordinated Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Cedel that apply to such transfer or exchange. "ASSET SALE" means (i) the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of any assets or rights (including, without limitation, by way of a sale and leaseback) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices (provided that the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole will be governed by the provisions of Section 4.15 and/or Section 5.01 hereof and not by the provisions of Section 4.10 hereof, and (ii) the issue or sale by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Equity Interests of any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries, in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), whether in a single transaction or a series of related transactions (a) that have a fair market value in excess of $5.0 million or (b) for Net Proceeds in excess of $5.0 million. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) a transfer of assets by the Company to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, (ii) an issuance or sale of Equity Interests by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, (iii) a Restricted Payment that is not prohibited by Section 4.07 hereof, (iv) sales of receivables (A) of the type specified in the definition of "Qualified Securitization Transaction" to a Securitization Entity for the fair market value thereof, including consideration in the amount specified in the proviso to the definition of Qualified Securitization Transaction or (B) in connection with the Schmalbach Receivables Facility and (v) the sale or disposition of Cash Equivalents or obsolete equipment, will not be deemed to be Asset Sales. "ATTRIBUTABLE DEBT" in respect of a sale and leaseback transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP) of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such sale and leaseback transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended). "BANKRUPTCY LAW" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors. "BUSINESS DAY" means any day other than a Legal Holiday. "CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATION" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at such time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP. "CAPITAL STOCK" means (i) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock, (ii) in the case of an association or business entity, all shares, interests, participation, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock, (iii) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests (whether general or limited) and (iv) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person. "CASH EQUIVALENTS" means (i) United States dollars, (ii) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or any agency or instrumentality thereof having maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition, (iii) certificates of deposit and eurodollar time deposits with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition, bankers' acceptances with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition and overnight bank deposits, in each case with any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500 million and a Thompson Bank Watch Rating of "B" or better, (iv) repurchase obligations with a term of not more than seven days for underlying securities of the types described in clauses (ii) and (iii) above entered into with any financial institution meeting the qualifications specified in clause (iii) above and (v) commercial paper having the highest rating obtainable from Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or one of the two highest ratings from Standard & Poor's with maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition. "CEDEL" means Cedel Bank, SA. "CHANGE OF CONTROL" means the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole to any "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act; (ii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above) becomes the "beneficial owners" (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 and Rule l3d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total of the Voting Stock of the Company (measured by voting power rather than number of shares); (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or (v) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person or sells, assigns, conveys, transfers, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction is converted into or exchanged for Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person constituting a majority of the outstanding shares of such Voting Stock of such surviving or transferee Person (immediately after giving effect to such issuance). "COMPANY" means Ball Corporation, and any and all successors thereto. "CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period plus (i) an amount equal to any extraordinary loss plus any net loss realized in connection with an Asset Sale (to the extent such losses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income), plus (ii) provision for taxes based on income or profits of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes was included in computing such Consolidated Net Income, plus (iii) consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued and whether or not capitalized (including, without limitation, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings and receivables financings, and net payments (if any) pursuant to Hedging Obligations), to the extent that any such expense was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income, plus (iv) depreciation, amortization (including amortization of goodwill and other intangibles but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period) and other noncash expenses (excluding any such noncash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period) of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the extent that such depreciation, amortization and other noncash expenses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income, minus (v) non-cash items increasing such Consolidated Net Income for such period (other than items that were accrued in the ordinary course of business), in each case, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provision for taxes on the income or profits of, and the depreciation and amortization and other non-cash charges of, a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company shall be added to Consolidated Net Income to compute Consolidated Cash Flow of the Company only to the extent (and in same proportion) that the Net Income of such Restricted Subsidiary was included in calculating the Consolidated Net Income of such Person and only if a corresponding amount would be permitted at the date of determination to be dividended to the Company by such Restricted Subsidiary without prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained), and without direct or indirect restriction pursuant to the terms of its charter and all agreements, instruments, judgments, decrees, orders, statutes, rules and governmental regulations applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders. "CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries (for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP); provided that (i) the Net Income (but not loss) of any Person that is not a Restricted Subsidiary or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting shall be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions paid in cash to the referent Person or a Restricted Subsidiary, (ii) the Net Income of any Restricted Subsidiary shall be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by that Restricted Subsidiary of that Net Income is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval (that has not been obtained) or, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders, (iii) the Net Income of any Person acquired in a pooling of interests transaction for any period prior to the date of such acquisition shall be excluded, and (iv) the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles shall be excluded. "CONTINUING DIRECTORS" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or (ii) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such nomination or election. "CORPORATE TRUST OFFICE OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE" shall be at the address of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee specified in Section 12.02 hereof or such other address as to which the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may give notice to the Company. "CREDIT AGREEMENTS" means (i) the Long-Term Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998 among the Company, the financial institutions from time to time a party thereto as lenders, The First National Bank of Chicago, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, in its capacity as Syndication Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., in its capacity as Documentation Agent (as the same may from time to time be amended, modified, supplemented and/or restated, the "LONG-TERM CREDIT AGREEMENT"), (ii) the Short-Term Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998 among the Company, the financial institutions from time to time a party thereto as lenders, The First National Bank of Chicago, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, in its capacity as Syndication Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., in its capacity as Documentation Agent (as the same may from time to time be amended, modified, supplemented and/or restated, the "SHORT-TERM CREDIT AGREEMENT"), and (iii) the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998 among the Company, Ball Packaging Products Canada, Inc., and the Royal Bank of Canada. "CREDIT FACILITIES" means one or more debt facilities (including, without limitation, the Credit Agreements) or commercial paper facilities, in each case with banks or other lenders providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financings (including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables) or letters of credit, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time. "CUSTODIAN" means the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto. "DEFAULT" means any event that is or with the passage of time or the giving of notice (or both) would be an Event of Default. "DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a certificated Senior Subordinated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.06 hereof, in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto except that such Senior Subordinated Note shall not bear the Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Subordinated Note" attached thereto. "DEPOSITARY" means, with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.03 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "DESIGNATED NONCASH CONSIDERATION" means the fair market value of noncash consideration received by the Company or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale that is so designated as Designated Noncash Consideration pursuant to an Officers' Certificate, setting forth the basis of such valuation, executed by the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of the Company, less the amount of cash or Cash Equivalents received in connection with a sale of such Designated Noncash Consideration. "DESIGNATED SENIOR DEBT" means (i) any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries outstanding under Credit Facilities, (ii) any Indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Note Indenture and (iii) any other Senior Debt permitted under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture the principal amount of which is $25.0 million or more and that has been designated by the Company as "Designated Senior Debt." "DISQUALIFIED STOCK" means any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 91 days after the date on which the Senior Subordinated Notes mature, except to the extent that such Capital Stock is solely redeemable with, or solely exchangeable for, any Capital Stock of such Person that is not Disqualified Stock. "DOMESTIC SUBSIDIARY" means a Subsidiary that is (i) formed under the laws of the United States of America or a state or territory thereof or (ii) as of the date of determination, treated as a domestic entity or a partnership or a division of a domestic entity for United States federal income tax purposes. "EQUITY INTERESTS" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock). "EUROCLEAR" means Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Brussels office, as operator of the Euroclear system. "EXCHANGE ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "EXCHANGE OFFER" has the meaning set forth in the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement. "EXCHANGE OFFER REGISTRATION STATEMENT" has the meaning set forth in the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement. "EXCHANGE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES" means the Senior Subordinated Notes issued in the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2.06(f) hereof. "EXCLUDED SUBSIDIARY" means each of the following Subsidiaries of the Company: Analytic Decisions, Incorporated, a Virginia corporation; Ball Corporation, a Nevada corporation; Ball-Canada Holdings Inc., a Canadian corporation; Ball Glass Containers, Inc., a Delaware corporation; Ball International Sales Corporation, a Delaware corporation; Ball Metal Container Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Ball Technology Licensing Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Heekin Can, Inc., a Colorado corporation; Metropack Containers Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Muncie & Western Railroad Company, an Indiana corporation; Ball Pan Asia Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of Mauritius; and Ball Brazil Holdings Limited, a Company Limited by Shares organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands; provided, that each such Subsidiary shall be an Excluded Subsidiary only if and only for so long as (i) each such Subsidiary is in existence solely for the purposes of being a "name-holding" entity, (ii) each such Subsidiary engages in no business, (iii) each such Subsidiary has no liabilities (including any guarantee of Indebtedness of any other Person), and (iv) the aggregate of the assets (including capitalization) of all such Subsidiaries shall not exceed $5,000,000.00. "EXISTING INDEBTEDNESS" means Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in existence on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "FIXED CHARGES" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued (including, without limitation, to the extent properly characterized as interest expense in accordance with GAAP, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings, and net payments (if any) pursuant to Hedging Obligations), (ii) the consolidated interest of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries that was capitalized during such period, (iii) any interest expense on Indebtedness of another Person that is Guaranteed by such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries or secured by a Lien on assets of such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries (whether, or not such Guarantee or Lien is called upon) and (iv) all dividend payments, whether or not in cash, on any series of preferred stock of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than dividend payments on Equity Interests payable solely in Equity Interests of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock). "FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO" means with respect to any Person for any period, the ratio of the Consolidated Cash Flow of such Person for such period to the Fixed Charges of such Person for such period. In the event that the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries incurs, assumes, Guarantees or redeems any Indebtedness (other than revolving credit borrowings under any Credit Facility) or issues preferred stock subsequent to the commencement of the period for which the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is being calculated but on or prior to the date on which the event for which the calculation of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is made (the "CALCULATION DATE"), then the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio shall be calculated giving pro forma effect to such incurrence, assumption, Guarantee or redemption of Indebtedness, or such issuance or redemption of preferred stock, as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter reference period. In addition, for purposes of making the computation referred to above, (i) acquisitions that have been made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, including through mergers or consolidations and including any related financing transactions, during the four-quarter reference period or subsequent to such reference period and on or prior to the Calculation Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day of the four-quarter reference period and Consolidated Cash Flow for such reference period shall be calculated without giving effect to clause (iii) of the proviso set forth in the definition of Consolidated Net Income, (ii) the Consolidated Cash Flow attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, shall be excluded, and (iii) the Fixed Charges attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, shall be excluded, but only to the extent that the obligations giving rise to such Fixed Charges will not be obligations of the referent Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries following the Calculation Date. "FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES" means Subsidiaries of the Company that are not Domestic Subsidiaries. "FTB" means FTB Packaging Limited, a Hong Kong corporation. "FTB GROUP" means FTB and each of its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, MCP and each of its Subsidiaries and joint ventures. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and such other statements by such other entities as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable at the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE LEGEND" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(ii), which is required to be placed on all Global Senior Subordinated Notes issued under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes and the Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes, in the form of Exhibits A1 and A2 hereto issued in accordance with Section 2.01, 2.06(b)(iv), 2.06(d)(ii) or 2.06(f) hereof. "GOVERNMENT SECURITIES" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America, and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit. "GUARANTEE" means a guarantee (other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business), direct or indirect, in any manner (including, without limitation, letters of credit and reimbursement agreements in respect thereof), of all or any part of any Indebtedness. "GUARANTORS" means each Domestic Subsidiary of the Company as of the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (other than Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries) and each other Subsidiary that becomes a party to a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. "HEDGING OBLIGATIONS" means, with respect to any Person, the net payment Obligations of such Person under (i) interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements and (ii) other agreements or arrangements in the ordinary course of business and pursuant to past practices designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates or currency exchange rates. "HOLDER" means a Person in whose name a Senior Subordinated Note is registered. "IAI GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means the global Senior Subordinated Note in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto bearing the Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes sold to Institutional Accredited Investors. "INDEBTEDNESS" means, with respect to any Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent, in respect of borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit (or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof) or banker's acceptances or representing Capital Lease Obligations or the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property or representing any Hedging Obligations, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable, if and to the extent any of the foregoing indebtedness (other than letters of credit and Hedging Obligations) would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person (whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person) and, to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by such Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person, and any liability, whether or not contingent and whether or not it appears on the balance sheet of such other Person. The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date shall be (i) the accreted value thereof, in the case of any Indebtedness that does not require current payments of interest, and (ii) the principal amount thereof, together with any interest thereon that is more than 30 days past due, in the case of any other Indebtedness. "INDIRECT PARTICIPANT" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Senior Subordinated Note through a Participant. "INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who are not also QIBs. "INVESTMENTS" means, with respect to any Person, all investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of direct or indirect loans (including Guarantees of Indebtedness or other Obligations), advances of assets or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and entertainment, moving, and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business, prepaid expenses and accounts receivable), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. If the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the fair market value of the Equity Interests of such Restricted Subsidiary not sold or disposed of in an amount determined as provided in the final paragraph of Section 4.07 hereof. "LEGAL HOLIDAY" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, the city in which the principal office of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is located or at a place of payment are authorized by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the intervening period. "LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer. "LIEN" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in any asset and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction). "LIMITED ORIGINATOR RECOURSE" means a reimbursement obligation to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in connection with a drawing on a letter of credit, revolving loan commitment, cash collateral account or other such credit enhancement issued to support Indebtedness of a Securitization Entity under a facility for the financing of trade receivables; provided that the available amount of any such form of credit enhancement at any time shall not exceed 10.0% of the principal amount of such Indebtedness at such time. "LIQUIDATED DAMAGES" means all liquidated damages then owing pursuant to Section 5 of the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement. "MARKETABLE SECURITIES" means, with respect to any Asset Sale, any readily marketable equity securities that are (i) traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market; and (ii) issued by a corporation having a total equity market capitalization of not less than $250.0 million; provided that the excess of (A) the aggregate amount of securities of any one such corporation held by the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary over (B) ten times the average daily trading volume of such securities during the 20 immediately preceding trading days shall be deemed not to be Marketable Securities; as determined on the date of the contract relating to such Asset Sale. "MCP" means M.C. Packaging (Hong Kong) Limited, a Hong Kong corporation. "NET INCOME" means, with respect to any Person, the net income (loss) of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of preferred stock dividends, excluding, however, (i) any gain or loss together with any related provision for taxes on such gain or loss, realized in connection with the disposition of any securities by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or the extinguishment of any Indebtedness of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) any extraordinary gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such extraordinary gain or loss, and (iii) any one-time noncash charges (including legal, accounting and debt issuance costs) resulting from the Transactions. "NET PROCEEDS" means the aggregate cash proceeds or Cash Equivalents received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale (including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Sale), net of all costs relating to such Asset Sale (including, without limitation, legal, accounting, investment banking and brokers fees, and sales and underwriting commissions) and any relocation expenses incurred as a result thereof, taxes paid or payable as a result thereof (after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements) and any reserve for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets established in accordance with GAAP. "NON-RECOURSE DEBT" means Indebtedness (i) as to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (a) provides credit support of any kind (including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Indebtedness), (b) is directly or indirectly liable (as a guarantor or otherwise), or (c) constitutes the lender; and (ii) no default with respect to which (including any rights that the holders thereof may have to take enforcement action against an Unrestricted Subsidiary) would permit (upon notice, lapse of time or both) any holder of any other Indebtedness (other than the Senior Subordinated Notes being offered hereby) of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to declare a default on such other Indebtedness or cause the payment thereof to be accelerated or payable prior to its stated maturity; and (iii) as to which the lenders have been notified in writing that they will not have any recourse to the stock or assets of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries. "NON-U.S. PERSON" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person. "OBLIGATIONS" means any principal, premium, if any, interest (including interest accruing on or after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization relating to the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries whether or not a claim for post-filing interest is allowed in such proceeding), penalties, fees, charges, expenses, indemnifications, reimbursement obligations, damages (including Liquidated Damages), guarantees and other liabilities or amounts payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness or in respect thereof. "OFFICER" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person. "OFFICERS' CERTIFICATE" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be a vice-president, the principal financial officer, the treasurer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 hereof. "OPINION OF COUNSEL" means an opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, that meets the requirements of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. "PARTICIPANT" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Cedel, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Cedel, respectively (and, with respect to The Depository Trust Company, shall include Euroclear and Cedel). "PARTICIPATING BROKER-DEALER" means a broker-dealer participating in the Exchange Offer. "PERMITTED BUSINESS" means the lines of business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and businesses substantially similar, related or incidental thereto or reasonable extensions thereof. "PERMITTED INVESTMENTS" means (a) any Investment in the Company or in a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (b) any Investment in Cash Equivalents; (c) any Investment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in a Person engaged in a Permitted Business, if as a result of such Investment (i) such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or (ii) such Person is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; (d) any Restricted Investment made as a result of the receipt of non-cash consideration from an Asset Sale that was made pursuant to and in compliance with Section 4.10 hereto; (e) any acquisition of assets solely in exchange for the issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company; (f) other Investments by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in any Person having an aggregate fair market value (measured as of the date made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value), when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (f) that are at the time outstanding, not to exceed $50.0 million; (g) Investments arising in connection with Hedging Obligations that are incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices, for the purpose of fixing or hedging currency, commodity or interest rate risk (including with respect to any floating rate Indebtedness that is permitted by the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be outstanding) in connection with the conduct of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries which are Guarantors; (h) (1) any Investment by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company in a Securitization Entity or any Investment by a Securitization Entity in any other Person in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; provided that any Investment in a Securitization Entity is in the form of a Purchase Money Note or an equity interest or (2) any sale or transfer of receivables in connection with the Schmalbach Receivables Facility; (i) any Investment existing on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and any amendment, modification, restatement, supplement, extension, renewal, refunding, replacement, refinancing, in whole or in part, thereof; (j) any Investment in FTB Group, the proceeds of which are used to permanently repay Indebtedness of FTB Group that was outstanding on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; and (k) Investments in Permitted Joint Ventures of up to $25 million outstanding at any time. "PERMITTED JOINT VENTURE" means a joint venture (however structured) engaged in a Permitted Business and in which the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (a) owns at least 40% of the ownership interest or (b) has a right to receive at least 40% of the profits or distributions; provided that such joint venture is not a Subsidiary. "PERMITTED JUNIOR SECURITIES" means Equity Interests in the Company or debt securities that are subordinated to all Senior Debt (and any debt securities issued in exchange for Senior Debt) to substantially the same extent as, or to a greater extent than, the Senior Subordinated Notes are subordinated to Senior Debt pursuant to Article 10 of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "PERMITTED LIENS" means (i) Liens on assets (including, without limitation, the capital stock of a Subsidiary) of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to secure Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities that is permitted by the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be incurred; (ii) Liens on the assets of the Company or any of the Guarantors to secure Hedging Obligations to any Person that is a holder of Senior Debt (or an Affiliate thereof) with respect to Indebtedness under any Credit Facility permitted by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be incurred; (iii) Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is acquired by, merged into or consolidated with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; provided that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such acquisition, merger or consolidation and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person acquired by, merged into or consolidated with the Company; (iv) Liens on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, provided that such Liens were in existence prior to the contemplation of such acquisition and only extend to the property so acquired; (v) Liens existing on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (including a Lien incurred or to be incurred to secure outstanding Indebtedness under the existing 8.46% Guaranteed ESOP Notes, Series A due January 15, 1999 and 8.83% Guaranteed ESOP Notes, Series B due December 15, 2001 of the Ball Corporation Salary Conversion and Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust and the related guarantees thereof by the Company); (vi) Liens to secure any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refinance any Indebtedness secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) through (v), as the case may be, at the time the original Lien became a Permitted Lien; (vii) Liens in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Guarantor; (viii) Liens to secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (xiv) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof, (ix) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with respect to obligations that do not exceed $25.0 million in the aggregate at any one time outstanding and that (a) are not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit (other than trade credit in the ordinary course of business and (b) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of business by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; (x) Liens to secure the performance of statutory obligations, surety or appeal bonds, performance bonds, deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, government contracts, leases or licenses or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business (including, without limitation, landlord Liens on leased properties); (xi) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; provided that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required to conform with GAAP shall have been made therefor; (xii) Liens to secure Indebtedness (including Capital Lease Obligations) permitted by clause (v) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof, covering only the assets acquired with such Indebtedness; (xiii) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords' materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business in respect of obligations not overdue for a period in excess of 60 days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently prosecuted; provided that any reserve or other appropriate provision as shall be required to conform with GAAP shall have been made therefor; (xiv) easements, rights-of-way, zoning and similar restrictions and other similar encumbrances or title defects incurred, or leases or subleases granted to others, in the ordinary course of business, which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or do not interfere with or adversely affect in any material respect the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (xv) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business; (xvi) leases or subleases granted to third Persons not interfering with the ordinary course of business of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (xvii) Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder) incurred or deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, and other types of social security; (xviii) deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure liability to insurance carriers; (xix) Liens for purchase money obligations (including refinancings thereof permitted under Section 4.09 hereof), provided that (A) the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof, and (B) any such Lien encumbers only the asset so purchased; (xx) any attachment or judgment Lien not constituting an Event of Default under clause (i) of the first paragraph of Section 6.01 hereof; (xxi) any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor under any operating lease; (xxii) Liens (A) on assets transferred to a Securitization Entity or on assets of a Securitization Entity, in either case incurred in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction or (B) incurred pursuant to the Schmalbach Receivables Facility; and (xxiii) Liens under licensing agreements for use of Intellectual Property entered into in the ordinary course of business. "PERMITTED REFINANCING INDEBTEDNESS" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Indebtedness); provided that: (i) the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount of (or accreted value, if applicable), plus accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any, on, any Indebtedness so extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded (plus the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in connection therewith); (ii) such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; (iii) if the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Subordinated Notes, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and is subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Subordinated Notes on terms at least as favorable to the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes as those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; and (iv) such Indebtedness is incurred either by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary who is the obligor on the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded. "PERSON" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity. "PRIVATE PLACEMENT LEGEND" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(i) to be placed on all Senior Subordinated Notes issued under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "PUBLIC EQUITY OFFERING" means any underwritten primary public offering of the Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock) pursuant to an effective registration statement (other than a registration statement on Form S-4, Form S-8, or any successor or similar form) under the Securities Act. "PURCHASE MONEY NOTE" means a promissory note of a Securitization Entity evidencing a line of credit, which may be irrevocable, from the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction, which note shall be repaid from cash available to the Securitization Entity, other than amounts required to be established as reserves pursuant to agreements, amounts paid to investors in respect of interest, principal and other amounts owing to such investors and amounts paid in connection with the purchase of newly generated receivables. "QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A. "QUALIFIED SECURITIZATION TRANSACTION" means any transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (a) a Securitization Entity (in the case of a transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) and (b) any other Person (in case of a transfer by a Securitization Entity), or may grant a security interest in, any receivables (whether now existing or arising or acquired in the future) of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto including, without limitation, all collateral securing such receivables, all contracts and contract rights and all Guarantees or other obligations in respect of such receivables, proceeds of such receivables and other assets (including contract rights) which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving receivables (collectively, "transferred assets"); provided that in the case of any such transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, the transferor receives cash or Purchase Money Notes in an amount which (when aggregated with the cash and Purchase Money Notes received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries upon all other such transfers of transferred assets during the ninety days preceding such transfer) is at least equal to 75% of the aggregate face amount of all receivables so transferred during such day and the ninety preceding days. "REGULATION S" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act. "REGULATION S GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note or Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Subordinated Note, as appropriate. "REGULATION S PERMANENT GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a permanent global Senior Subordinated Note in the form of Exhibit A1 hereto bearing the Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note upon expiration of the Restricted Period. "REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a temporary global Senior Subordinated Note in the form of Exhibit A2 hereto bearing the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S. "REPRESENTATIVE" means the administrative agents under the Credit Agreements or their respective successors thereunder. "RESPONSIBLE OFFICER" when used with respect to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a Global Senior Subordinated Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "RESTRICTED INVESTMENT" means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment. "RESTRICTED PERIOD" means the 40-day restricted period as defined in Regulation S. "RESTRICTED SUBSIDIARY" of a Person means any Subsidiary of the referent Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary; provided that, on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, all Subsidiaries of the Company other than FTB Group, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries shall be Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company. "RULE 144" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. "RULE 144A" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act. "RULE 903" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act. "RULE 904" means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act. "SCHMALBACH RECEIVABLES FACILITY" means the existing accounts receivables securitization program of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG and its Subsidiaries as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced, increased or refinanced, in whole or in part, from time to time, by one or more of Schmalbach-Lubeca AG, its existing and future European subsidiaries, European affiliates that are Restricted Subsidiaries and Ball Capital Corp.; provided, that the principal or capital amount outstanding under any such facility shall not exceed (euro)100 million in the aggregate. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "SECURITIES ACT" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "SECURITIZATION ENTITY" means a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company (or another Person in which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company makes an Investment and to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company transfers receivables and related assets) that engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of receivables and that is designated by the Board of the Directors of the Company (as provided below) as a Securitization Entity (a) no portion of the Indebtedness or any other Obligations (contingent or otherwise) of which (i) is guaranteed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company (other than the Securitization Entity) in any way other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company (other than the Securitization Entity), directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction thereof, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (b) with which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any material contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding other than on terms no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company, other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business in connection with servicing receivables of such entity and (c) to which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any obligation to maintain or preserve such entity's financial condition or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results. Any such designation by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be evidenced to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee by filing with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a certified copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions. "SENIOR DEBT" means (i) all Indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facility permitted under clauses (i) and (ii) of the second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof, (ii) any other Indebtedness permitted to be incurred by the Company under the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, unless the instrument under which such Indebtedness is incurred expressly provides that it is on a parity with or subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Subordinated Notes and (iii) all Obligations with respect to the foregoing. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, Senior Debt will not include (w) any liability for federal, state, local or other taxes owed or owing by the Company, (x) any Indebtedness of the Company to any of its Subsidiaries or other Affiliates, (y) any trade payables or (z) any Indebtedness that is incurred in violation of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "SENIOR NOTE INDENTURE" means that certain Senior Note Indenture, dated as of the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, between the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York as Senior Note Trustee, as amended or supplemented from time to time, relating to the Senior Notes. "SENIOR NOTES" means the Company's 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2006 issued concurrently pursuant to the Senior Note Indenture. "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE" means this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, relating to the Senior Subordinated Notes. "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE" means the party named as such above until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder. "SENIOR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE" means the Guarantee of the Senior Notes by each of the Guarantors pursuant to the Senior Note Indenture and any additional Guarantee of the Senior Notes to be executed by any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to the Senior Note Indenture. "SERIES A SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "SERIES B SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "SHELF REGISTRATION STATEMENT" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement. "SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARY" means any Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. "STANDARD SECURITIZATION UNDERTAKINGS" means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company that are reasonably customary in receivables securitization transactions. "STATED MATURITY" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which such payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the Credit Agreements or other original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and shall not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof. "SUBORDINATED REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT" means the Registration Rights Agreement with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes, dated as of August 10, 1998, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. "SUBSIDIARY" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person and (ii) any partnership (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or an entity described in clause (i) and related to such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or of one or more entities described in clause (i) and related to such Person (or any combination thereof). "SUBORDINATED SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE" means the Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes by each of the Guarantors pursuant to Article 12 hereof and in the form of Guarantee endorsed on the forms of Senior Subordinated Note attached as Exhibits A1 and A2 hereto and any additional Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes to be executed by any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to Section 4.16 hereof. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. ss.ss. 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date on which this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture is qualified under the TIA. "TOTAL ASSETS" means the total assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP, as shown on the most recently available consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. "TRANSACTIONS" means the entering into the Credit Agreements; the issuance of the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes; and the Acquisition. "UNRESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means one or more Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend. "UNRESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE" means a permanent global Senior Subordinated Note in the form of Exhibit A1 attached hereto that bears the Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Subordinated Note" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Senior Subordinated Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. "UNRESTRICTED SUBSIDIARY" means each of FTB Group, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries. In addition, "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means (i) any Subsidiary that is designated by the Board of Directors as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a Board Resolution; but only to the extent that such Subsidiary (a) has no Indebtedness other than Non-Recourse Debt; (b) is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company unless the terms of any such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of the Company; (c) is a Person with respect to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation (x) to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or (y) to maintain or preserve such Person's net worth; and (d) has not guaranteed or otherwise directly or indirectly provided credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may guarantee the performance of Unrestricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business except for guarantees of Obligations in respect of borrowed money. Any such designation by the Board of Directors shall be evidenced to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee by filing with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a certified copy of the board resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions and was permitted by Section 4.07 hereof. "U.S. PERSON" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act. "VOTING STOCK" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person. "WEIGHTED AVERAGE LIFE TO MATURITY" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing (i) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect thereof, by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment, by (ii) the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness. "WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY" means a Restricted Subsidiary, 100% of the outstanding Capital Stock and other Equity Interests of which is directly or indirectly owned by the Company. SECTION 1.02. OTHER DEFINITIONS. Defined in Term Section "AFFILIATE TRANSACTION" .............................................. 4.11 "AUTHENTICATION ORDER"................................................ 2.02 "CALCULATION DATE".................................................... 1.01 "CHANGE OF CONTROL OFFER"............................................. 4.15 "CHANGE OF CONTROL PAYMENT" .......................................... 4.15 "CHANGE OF CONTROL PAYMENT DATE"...................................... 4.15 "COVENANT DEFEASANCE"................................................. 8.03 "DTC"................................................................. 2.03 "EVENT OF DEFAULT".................................................... 6.01 "EXCESS PROCEEDS" .................................................... 4.10 "INCUR"............................................................... 4.09 "INVESTMENT GRADE RATINGS"............................................ 4.20 "LEGAL DEFEASANCE".................................................... 8.02 "LONG-TERM CREDIT AGREEMENT".......................................... 1.01 "MOODY'S"............................................................. 4.20 "OFFER AMOUNT"........................................................ 3.09 "OFFER PERIOD"........................................................ 3.09 "OTHER INDEBTEDNESS".................................................. 4.16 "PAYING AGENT"........................................................ 2.03 "PAYMENT BLOCKAGE NOTICE".............................................10.03 "PAYMENT DEFAULt"..................................................... 6.01 "PERMITTED DEBT"...................................................... 4.09 "PURCHASE DATE"....................................................... 3.09 "RATING AGENCIES"..................................................... 4.20 "REGISTRAR"........................................................... 2.03 "RESTRICTED PAYMENTS"................................................. 4.07 "S&P"................................................................. 4.20 "SENIOR SUBORDINATED ASSET SALE OFFER"................................ 4.10 "SHORT-TERM CREDIT AGREEMENT"......................................... 1.01 "SUSPENDED COVENANTS"................................................. 4.20 "SUSPENSION PERIOD"................................................... 4.20 SECTION 1.03. INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF TRUST INDENTURE ACT. Whenever this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture have the following meanings: "INDENTURE SECURITIES" means the Senior Subordinated Notes; "INDENTURE SECURITY HOLDER" means a Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note; "INDENTURE TO BE QUALIFIED" means this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; "INDENTURE TRUSTEE" or "INSTITUTIONAL TRUSTEE" means the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee; and "OBLIGOR" on the Senior Subordinated Notes and the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees means the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, and any successor obligor upon the Senior Subordinated Notes and the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees, respectively. All other terms used in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them. SECTION 1.04. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION. Unless the context otherwise requires: (1) a term has the meaning assigned to it; (2) an accounting term not otherwise defined herein has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP; (3) "or" is not exclusive; (4) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular; (5) provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and (6) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act shall be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time. ARTICLE 2 THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES SECTION 2.01. FORM AND DATING. (a) General. The Senior Subordinated Notes and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibits A1 and A2 hereto. The Senior Subordinated Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Senior Subordinated Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Senior Subordinated Notes shall be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. The terms and provisions contained in the Senior Subordinated Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Senior Subordinated Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall govern and be controlling. (b) Global Senior Subordinated Notes. Senior Subordinated Notes issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibits A1 or A2 attached hereto (including the Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Subordinated Note" attached thereto). Senior Subordinated Notes issued in definitive form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A1 attached hereto (but without the Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Senior Subordinated Note" attached thereto). Each Global Senior Subordinated Note shall represent such of the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Senior Subordinated Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 hereof. (c) Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Notes. Senior Subordinated Notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Senior Subordinated Notes represented thereby with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, at its New York office, as custodian for the Depositary, and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary for the accounts of designated agents holding on behalf of Euroclear or Cedel Bank, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee as hereinafter provided. The Restricted Period shall be terminated upon the receipt by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of (i) a written certificate from the Depositary, together with copies of certificates from Euroclear and Cedel Bank certifying that they have received certification of non-United States beneficial ownership of 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note (except to the extent of any beneficial owners thereof who acquired an interest therein during the Restricted Period pursuant to another exemption from registration under the Securities Act and who will take delivery of a beneficial ownership interest in a 144A Global Senior Subordinated Note or an IAI Global Senior Subordinated Note bearing a Private Placement Legend, all as contemplated by Section 2.06(a)(ii) hereof), and (ii) an Officers' Certificate from the Company. Following the termination of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note shall be exchanged for beneficial interests in Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the Applicable Procedures. Simultaneously with the authentication of Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Subordinated Notes, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cancel the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note. The aggregate principal amount of the Regulation S Temporary Subordinated Note and the Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Subordinated Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, in connection with transfers of interest as hereinafter provided. (d) Euroclear and Cedel Procedures Applicable. The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Cedel Bank" and "Customer Handbook" of Cedel Bank shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note and the Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Subordinated Notes that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Cedel Bank. SECTION 2.02. EXECUTION AND AUTHENTICATION. One Officer shall sign the Senior Subordinated Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature. If an Officer whose signature is on a Senior Subordinated Note no longer holds that office at the time a Senior Subordinated Note is authenticated, the Senior Subordinated Note shall nevertheless be valid. A Senior Subordinated Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Senior Subordinated Note has been authenticated under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Company signed by one Officer (an "AUTHENTICATION ORDER"), authenticate Senior Subordinated Notes for original issue up to the aggregate principal amount stated in paragraph 4 of the Senior Subordinated Notes. The aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes outstanding at any time may not exceed such amount except as provided in Section 2.07 hereof. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Senior Subordinated Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Senior Subordinated Notes whenever the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to authentication by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company. SECTION 2.03. REGISTRAR AND PAYING AGENT. The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Senior Subordinated Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("REGISTRAR") and an office or agency where Senior Subordinated Notes may be presented for payment ("PAYING AGENT"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Senior Subordinated Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company shall notify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar. The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company initially appoints the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 2.04. PAYING AGENT TO HOLD MONEY IN TRUST. The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes, and will notify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Upon payment over to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 2.05. HOLDER LISTS. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA ss. 312(a). If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes, and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA ss. 312(a). SECTION 2.06. TRANSFER AND EXCHANGE. (a) Transfer and Exchange of Global Senior Subordinated Notes. A Global Senior Subordinated Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Senior Subordinated Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes if (i) the Company delivers to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Senior Subordinated Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee; provided that in no event shall the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(c)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act. Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in (i) or (ii) above, Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Global Senior Subordinated Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.10 hereof. Every Senior Subordinated Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Senior Subordinated Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.06 or Section 2.07 or 2.10 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Senior Subordinated Note. A Global Senior Subordinated Note may not be exchanged for another Senior Subordinated Note other than as provided in this Section 2.06(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Senior Subordinated Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.06(b), (c) or (f) hereof. (b) Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Senior Subordinated Notes. The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Senior Subordinated Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Senior Subordinated Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable: (i) Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Senior Subordinated Note. Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; provided, however, that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Temporary Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.06(b)(i). (ii) All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Senior Subordinated Notes. In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.06(b)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Senior Subordinated Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Senior Subordinated Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above; provided that in no event shall Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes be issued upon the transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903 under the Securities Act. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.06(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.06(b)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Senior Subordinated Notes contained in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Senior Subordinated Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Senior Subordinated Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof. (iii) Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(ii) above and the Registrar receives the following: (A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Senior Subordinated Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note or the Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and (C) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Senior Subordinated Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications and certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable. (iv) Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note for Beneficial Interests in the Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(ii) above and: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal or via the Depositary's book-entry system that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Subordinated Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above. Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note. (c) Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. (i) Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes to Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation: (A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof; (B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; (D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof; (E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; (F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or (G) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Senior Subordinated Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Senior Subordinated Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to the Persons in whose names such Senior Subordinated Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Senior Subordinated Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein. Notwithstanding Sections 2.06(c)(i)(A) and (C) hereof, a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note may not be exchanged for a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note prior to (x) the expiration of the Restricted Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(c)(3)(ii)(B) under the Securities Act, except in the case of a transfer pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 903 or Rule 904. (ii) Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note only if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Subordinated Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. (iii) Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.06(b)(ii) hereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Senior Subordinated Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Senior Subordinated Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(iii) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to the Persons in whose names such Senior Subordinated Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Senior Subordinated Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(iii) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend. (d) Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes for Beneficial Interests. (i) Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes. If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note proposes to exchange such Senior Subordinated Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation: (A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note proposes to exchange such Senior Subordinated Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof; (B) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (C) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; (D) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof; (E) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; (F) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or (G) if such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Senior Subordinated Note, in the case of clause (c) above, the Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note, and in all other cases, the IAI Global Senior Subordinated Note. (ii) Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes. A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note may exchange such Senior Subordinated Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note only if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Subordinated Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; (C) such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes proposes to exchange such Senior Subordinated Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes proposes to transfer such Senior Subordinated Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.06(d)(ii), the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note. (iii) Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes. A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note may exchange such Senior Subordinated Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note or transfer such Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes. If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes so transferred. (e) Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes for Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.06(e), the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.06(e). (i) Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. Any Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note if the Registrar receives the following: (A) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; (B) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and (C) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable. (ii) Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. Any Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note if: (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Senior Subordinated Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; (B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; (C) any such transfer is effected by a Participating Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement; or (D) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes proposes to exchange such Senior Subordinated Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes proposes to transfer such Senior Subordinated Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and state "blue sky" laws and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. (iii) Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes. A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes may transfer such Senior Subordinated Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof. (f) Exchange Offer. Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Subordinated Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (x) they are not broker-dealers, (y) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Senior Subordinated Notes and (z) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer and (ii) Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Senior Subordinated Notes, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes so accepted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes in the appropriate principal amount. (g) Legends. The following legends shall appear on the face of all Subordinated Notes and Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes issued under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. (i) Private Placement Legend. (A) Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Senior Subordinated Note and each Definitive Senior Subordinated Note (and all Senior Subordinated Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form: "THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISION OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (1)(a) TO A PERSON WHO THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (b) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A FOREIGN PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (d) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE COMPANY OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN (A) ABOVE." (B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Senior Subordinated Note or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(iv), (c)(ii), (c)(iii), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii) or (f) to this Section 2.06 (and all Senior Subordinated Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend. (ii) Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend. Each Global Senior Subordinated Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "THIS GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY." (iii) Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note Legend. The Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: "THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE PAYMENT OF INTEREST HEREON." (h) Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Senior Subordinated Notes. At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Senior Subordinated Note have been exchanged for Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes or a particular Global Senior Subordinated Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Senior Subordinated Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in accordance with Section 2.11 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Senior Subordinated Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Senior Subordinated Note or for Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes, the principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes represented by such Global Senior Subordinated Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Senior Subordinated Note by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Senior Subordinated Note, such other Global Senior Subordinated Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Senior Subordinated Note by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to reflect such increase. (i) General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges. (i) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate Global Senior Subordinated Notes and Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes upon the Company's order or at the Registrar's request. (ii) No service charge shall be made to a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Senior Subordinated Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.10, 3.06, 3.09, 4.10, 4.15 and 9.05 hereof). (iii) The Registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Senior Subordinated Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Senior Subordinated Note being redeemed in part. (iv) All Global Senior Subordinated Notes and Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Senior Subordinated Notes or Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, as the Global Senior Subordinated Notes or Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. (v) The Company shall not be required (A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Senior Subordinated Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of Senior Subordinated Notes for redemption under Section 3.02 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection, (B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Senior Subordinated Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Senior Subordinated Note being redeemed in part or (C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Senior Subordinated Note between a record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date. (vi) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Senior Subordinated Note, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Senior Subordinated Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Senior Subordinated Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Senior Subordinated Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary. (vii) The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate Global Senior Subordinated Notes and Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof. (viii) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.06 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile. SECTION 2.07. REPLACEMENT SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. If any mutilated Senior Subordinated Note is surrendered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Company and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Senior Subordinated Note, the Company shall issue and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate a replacement Senior Subordinated Note if the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Senior Subordinated Note is replaced. The Company may charge for its expenses in replacing a Senior Subordinated Note. Every replacement Senior Subordinated Note is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Senior Subordinated Notes duly issued hereunder. SECTION 2.08. OUTSTANDING SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. The Senior Subordinated Notes outstanding at any time are all the Senior Subordinated Notes authenticated by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Senior Subordinated Note effected by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Senior Subordinated Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Senior Subordinated Note. If a Senior Subordinated Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Senior Subordinated Note is held by a bona fide purchaser. If the principal amount of any Senior Subordinated Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue. If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Senior Subordinated Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Senior Subordinated Notes shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding and shall cease to accrue interest. SECTION 2.09. TREASURY SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Senior Subordinated Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, shall be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Senior Subordinated Notes that a Responsible Officer of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. SECTION 2.10. TEMPORARY SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. Until certificates representing Senior Subordinated Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate temporary Senior Subordinated Notes. Temporary Senior Subordinated Notes shall be substantially in the form of certificated Senior Subordinated Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Senior Subordinated Notes and as shall be reasonably acceptable to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate definitive Senior Subordinated Notes in exchange for temporary Senior Subordinated Notes. Holders of temporary Senior Subordinated Notes shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. SECTION 2.11. CANCELLATION. The Company at any time may deliver Senior Subordinated Notes to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and Paying Agent shall forward to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee any Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall return such canceled Senior Subordinated Notes to the Company. The Company may not issue new Senior Subordinated Notes to replace Senior Subordinated Notes that it has paid or that have been delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee for cancellation. SECTION 2.12. DEFAULTED INTEREST. If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Senior Subordinated Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. The Company shall notify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Senior Subordinated Note and the date of the proposed payment. The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, provided that no such special record date shall be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) shall mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid. SECTION 2.13. CUSIP NUMBER. The Company in issuing the Senior Subordinated Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Senior Subordinated Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Senior Subordinated Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or the omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENT SECTION 3.01. NOTICES TO SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE. If the Company elects to redeem Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof, it shall furnish to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers' Certificate setting forth (i) the clause of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture pursuant to which the redemption shall occur, (ii) the redemption date, (iii) the principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed, (iv) the redemption price and (v) the CUSIP numbers of the Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed. SECTION 3.02. SELECTION OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES TO BE REDEEMED. If less than all of the Senior Subordinated Notes are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall select the Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed or purchased among the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Senior Subordinated Notes are listed or, if the Senior Subordinated Notes are not so listed, on a pro rata basis, by lot or in accordance with any other method the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate; provided that no Senior Subordinated Notes of $1,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. In the event of partial redemption by lot, the particular Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed shall be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee from the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes not previously called for redemption. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Senior Subordinated Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Senior Subordinated Note selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. Senior Subordinated Notes and portions of Senior Subordinated Notes selected shall be in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000; except that if all of the Senior Subordinated Notes of a Holder are to be redeemed, the entire outstanding amount of Senior Subordinated Notes held by such Holder, even if not a multiple of $1,000, shall be redeemed. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that apply to Senior Subordinated Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Senior Subordinated Notes called for redemption. SECTION 3.03. NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.09 hereof, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Senior Subordinated Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. The notice shall identify the Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed, including the CUSIP numbers, and shall state: (a) the redemption date; (b) the redemption price; (c) if any Senior Subordinated Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Senior Subordinated Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Senior Subordinated Note, a new Senior Subordinated Note or Senior Subordinated Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion shall be issued upon cancellation of the original Senior Subordinated Note; (d) the name and address of the Paying Agent; (e) that Senior Subordinated Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price; (f) that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, interest on Senior Subordinated Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date; (g) the paragraph of the Senior Subordinated Notes and/or Section of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture pursuant to which the Senior Subordinated Notes called for redemption are being redeemed; and (h) that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Senior Subordinated Notes. At the Company's request, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense; provided, however, that the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph. SECTION 3.04. EFFECT OF NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Senior Subordinated Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional. SECTION 3.05. DEPOSIT OF REDEMPTION PRICE. One Business Day prior to the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed on that date. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Paying Agent shall promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, all Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed. If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Senior Subordinated Notes or the portions of Senior Subordinated Notes called for redemption. If a Senior Subordinated Note is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Senior Subordinated Note was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Senior Subordinated Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Senior Subordinated Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. SECTION 3.06. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES REDEEMED IN PART. Upon surrender of a Senior Subordinated Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall issue and, upon the Company's written request, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Company a new Senior Subordinated Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Senior Subordinated Note surrendered. SECTION 3.07. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. (a) The Senior Subordinated Notes will not be subject to redemption at the option of the Company prior to August 1, 2003. Thereafter, the Senior Subordinated Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1 of the years indicated below: YEAR PERCENTAGE 2003 104.125% 2004 102.750% 2005 101.375% 2006 and thereafter 100.000% (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (a) of this Section 3.07, during the first 36 months after August 5, 1998, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes issued under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture at a redemption price of 108.250% of the principal amount thereof, plus in such case accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of any Public Equity Offering; provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes issued remain outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption (excluding Senior Subordinated Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries); and provided, further, that such redemption shall occur within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Public Equity Offering. (c) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.07 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 through 3.06 hereof. SECTION 3.08. MANDATORY REDEMPTION. Except as set forth in Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 3.09. OFFER TO PURCHASE BY APPLICATION OF EXCESS PROCEEDS. In the event that, pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof, the Company shall be required to commence a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer, it shall follow the procedures specified below. The Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer shall remain open for a period of 20 Business Days following its commencement and no longer, except to the extent that a longer period is required by applicable law (the "OFFER PERIOD"). No later than five Business Days after the termination of the Offer Period (the "PURCHASE DATE"), the Company shall purchase the principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes required to be purchased pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof (the "OFFER AMOUNT") or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Senior Subordinated Notes tendered in response to the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer. Payment for any Senior Subordinated Notes so purchased shall be made in the same manner as interest payments are made. If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Senior Subordinated Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer. Upon the commencement of a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and each of the Holders. The notice shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable such Holders to tender Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer. The Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer shall be made to all Holders. The notice, which shall govern the terms of the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer, shall state: (a) that the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 3.09 and Section 4.10 hereof and the length of time the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer shall remain open; (b) the Offer Amount, the purchase price and the Purchase Date; (c) that any Senior Subordinated Note not tendered or accepted for payment shall continue to accrete or accrue interest; (d) that, unless the Company defaults in making such payment, any Senior Subordinated Note accepted for payment pursuant to the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer shall cease to accrete or accrue interest after the Purchase Date; (e) that Holders electing to have a Senior Subordinated Note purchased pursuant to a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer may only elect to have all of such Senior Subordinated Note purchased and may not elect to have only a portion of such Senior Subordinated Note purchased; (f) that Holders electing to have a Senior Subordinated Note purchased pursuant to any Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer shall be required to surrender the Senior Subordinated Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Senior Subordinated Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Company, a depositary, if appointed by the Company, or a Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice at least three days before the Purchase Date; (g) that Holders shall be entitled to withdraw their election if the Company, the depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, receives, not later than the expiration of the Offer Period, a telegram, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Note the Holder delivered for purchase and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Senior Subordinated Note purchased; (h) that, if the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered by Holders exceeds the Offer Amount, the Company shall select the Senior Subordinated Notes to be purchased on a pro rata basis (with such adjustments as may be deemed appropriate by the Company so that only Senior Subordinated Notes in denominations of $1,000, or integral multiples thereof, shall be purchased); and (i) that Holders whose Senior Subordinated Notes were purchased only in part shall be issued new Senior Subordinated Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered (or transferred by book-entry transfer). On or before the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, accept for payment, on a pro rata basis to the extent necessary, the Offer Amount of Senior Subordinated Notes or portions thereof tendered pursuant to the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Senior Subordinated Notes tendered, and shall deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Senior Subordinated Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.09. The Company, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than five days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price of the Senior Subordinated Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Senior Subordinated Note, and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, upon written request from the Company shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Senior Subordinated Note to such Holder, in a principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Senior Subordinated Note surrendered. Any Senior Subordinated Note not so accepted shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date. Other than as specifically provided in this Section 3.09, any purchase pursuant to this Section 3.09 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06 hereof. ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS SECTION 4.01. PAYMENT OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. The Company or a Guarantor shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Senior Subordinated Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, then due. The Company shall pay all Liquidated Damages, if any, in the same manner on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement. The Company or a Guarantor shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Senior Subordinated Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful. SECTION 4.02. MAINTENANCE OF OFFICE OR AGENCY. The Company shall maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or an affiliate of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Senior Subordinated Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Senior Subordinated Notes and this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture may be served. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Administration Office of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Senior Subordinated Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.03. SECTION 4.03. REPORTS. (a) Whether or not the Company is required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, so long as any Senior Subordinated Notes are outstanding, the Company will furnish to each of the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (i) all quarterly and annual financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the SEC on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file such financial information, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" that describes the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and any consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries and, with respect to the annual information only, reports thereon by the Company's independent public accountants (which shall be firm(s) of established national reputation) and (ii) all information that would be required to be filed with the SEC on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports. All such information and reports shall be filed with the SEC (unless the SEC will not accept such a filing) on or prior to the dates on which such filings would have been required to be made had the Company been subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company shall file a copy of all such information and reports with the SEC for public availability within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations (unless the SEC will not accept such a filing) and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request. The Company shall at all times comply with TIA ss. 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). (b) For so long as any Senior Subordinated Notes remain outstanding, the Company and the Guarantors shall furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. SECTION 4.04. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. (a) The Company and each Guarantor (to the extent that such Guarantor is so required under the TIA) shall deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. (b) So long as not contrary to the then current recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the year-end financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.03(a) above shall be accompanied by a written statement of the Company's independent public accountants (who shall be a firm of established national reputation) that in making the examination necessary for certification of such financial statements, nothing has come to their attention that would lead them to believe that the Company has violated any provisions of Article 4 or Article 5 hereof or, if any such violation has occurred, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof, it being understood that such accountants shall not be liable directly or indirectly to any Person for any failure to obtain knowledge of any such violation. (c) The Company shall, so long as any of the Senior Subordinated Notes are outstanding, deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, as soon as possible, but in no event later than five days after any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. SECTION 4.05. TAXES. The Company shall pay, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 4.06. STAY, EXTENSION AND USURY LAWS. The Company and each of the Guarantors covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; and the Company and each of the Guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted. SECTION 4.07. RESTRICTED PAYMENTS. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly: (i) declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of the Company's or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests (including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company) or to the direct or indirect holders of the Company's or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends or distributions payable in Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company); (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value (including without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company) any Equity Interests of the Company or any direct or indirect parent of the Company or other Affiliate of the Company (other than any such Equity Interests owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company); (iii) make any payment on or with respect to, or purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value any subordinated Indebtedness, except a payment of interest or principal at Stated Maturity; or (iv) make any Restricted Investment (all such payments and other actions set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) above being collectively referred to as "RESTRICTED PAYMENTS"), unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment: (a) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence thereof; and (b) the Company would, at the time of such Restricted Payment and after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such Restricted Payment had been made at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, have been permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof; and (c) such Restricted Payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other Restricted Payments made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (excluding Restricted Payments permitted by clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (x) of the next succeeding paragraph), is less than the sum, without duplication, of (i) 50% of the Consolidated Net Income of the Company for the period (taken as one accounting period) from the beginning of the first fiscal quarter immediately following the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to the end of the Company's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available at the time of such Restricted Payment (or, if such Consolidated Net Income for such period is a deficit, less 100% of such deficit), plus (ii) 100% of the aggregate Net Cash Proceeds or the fair market value of property other than cash received by the Company as a contribution to its common equity capital or from the issue or sale since the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture of Equity Interests of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock), or of Disqualified Stock or debt securities of the Company that have been converted into such Equity Interests (other than Equity Interests (or Disqualified Stock or convertible debt securities) sold to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and other than Disqualified Stock or convertible debt securities that have been converted into Disqualified Stock), plus (iii) to the extent not already included in Consolidated Net Income of the Company for such period and without duplication, any Restricted Investment that was made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, or any Unrestricted Subsidiary which is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary subsequent to the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, 100% of the cash return of capital with respect to such Restricted Investment or Unrestricted Subsidiary (less the cost of disposition, if any) and 50% of the excess of the fair market value of the Company's Investment in such Unrestricted Subsidiary as of the date of such redesignation over the amount of the Restricted Investment that reduced this clause (c); provided further, that any amounts that increase this clause (c) shall not duplicatively increase amounts available as Permitted Investments. The foregoing provisions shall not prohibit: (i) the payment of any dividend within 60 days after the date of declaration thereof, if at said date of declaration such payment would have complied with the provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; (ii) the redemption, repurchase, retirement, defeasance or other acquisition of any Indebtedness which is subordinated Indebtedness or Equity Interests of the Company in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale (other than to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company) of, other Equity Interests of the Company (other than any Disqualified Stock); provided that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are utilized for any such redemption, repurchase, retirement, defeasance or other acquisition shall be excluded from clause (c) (ii) of the preceding paragraph; (iii) the defeasance, redemption, repurchase or other acquisition of Indebtedness which is subordinated Indebtedness with the net cash proceeds from an incurrence of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; (iv) the payment of any dividend or distribution by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the holders of its common Equity Interests so long as the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary receives at least its pro rata share of such dividend or distribution in accordance with its Equity Interests in such class or series of securities; (v) the payment of dividends on the Company's Common Stock and Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock of up to a combined amount of $25.0 million per annum; provided that any amount not utilized by the Company to pay dividends in any calendar year will not be carried forward to any subsequent year; (vi) (a) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Equity Interests of the Company that are held by any member of the Company's (or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) management pursuant to any management equity subscription agreement or stock option agreement or (b) the repurchase of Equity Interests of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company held by employee benefits plans (whether directly or for employees, directors or former directors) pursuant to the terms of agreements (other than management equity subscription agreements or stock option agreements) approved by the Company's Board of Directors; provided that, in the case of foregoing clause (a) the aggregate price paid for all such repurchased, redeemed, acquired or retired Equity Interests shall not exceed $10.0 million in the aggregate since the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and, in the case of foregoing clause (b), the aggregate purchase price paid for all such repurchased Equity Interests shall not exceed $15.0 million in any twelve-month period; (vii) repurchases of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon exercise of stock options if such Equity Interests represent a portion of the exercise price of such options; (viii) other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount since the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture not to exceed $50.0 million under this clause (viii); provided that, with respect to clauses (ii), (iii), (v), (vi) and (viii) above, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing immediately after such transaction or as a consequence thereof. As of the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, all of the Company's Subsidiaries other than the FTB Group, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries will be Restricted Subsidiaries. The Board of Directors may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if such designation would not cause a Default. For purposes of making such determination, all outstanding Investments by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (except to the extent repaid in cash) in the Subsidiary so designated will be deemed to be Restricted Payments at the time of such designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under the first paragraph of this Section 4.07. All such outstanding Investments will be deemed to constitute Investments in an amount equal to the fair market value of such Investments at the time of such designation. Such designation will only be permitted if such Restricted Payment would be permitted at such time and if such Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the requirements in the definition of "Unrestricted Subsidiary" as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it shall thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary shall be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as of such date (and, if such Indebtedness is not permitted to be incurred as of such date under Section 4.09 hereof, the Company shall be in default of such covenant). The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that such designation shall be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation shall only be permitted if (i) such Indebtedness is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof calculated on a pro forma basis as if such designation had occurred at the beginning of the four-quarter reference period, (ii) if such Subsidiary is a Domestic Subsidiary, such Subsidiary shall have executed and delivered a supplemental indenture pursuant to which it will become a Guarantor under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and (iii) no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation. The amount of all Restricted Payments (other than cash) shall be the fair market value on the date of the Restricted Payment of the asset(s) or securities proposed to be transferred or issued by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, pursuant to the Restricted Payment. The fair market value of any noncash Restricted Payment or any adjustment made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 4.07 shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company whose resolution with respect thereto shall be delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, such determination to be based upon an opinion or appraisal issued by an investment banking firm (or, if an investment banking firm is generally not qualified to give such an opinion or appraisal, by an appraisal firm) of national standing if such fair market value exceeds $25.0 million. Not later than the date of making any Restricted Payment, the Company shall deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Restricted Payment is permitted and setting forth the basis upon which the calculations required by this Section 4.07 were computed, together with a copy of any fairness opinion or appraisal required by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. If any Restricted Investment is sold or otherwise liquidated or repaid or any dividend or payment is received by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary and such amounts may be credited to clause (c) above, then such amounts will be credited only to the extent of amounts not otherwise included in Consolidated Net Income and that do not otherwise increase the amount available as a Permitted Investment. SECTION 4.08. DIVIDENDS AND OTHER PAYMENT RESTRICTIONS AFFECTING RESTRICTED SUBSIDIARIES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors to, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or the Company to (i)(x) pay dividends or make any other distributions to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (1) on its Capital Stock or (2) with respect to any other interest or participation in, or measured by, its profits, or (y) pay any Indebtedness owed to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) make loans or advances to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or (iii) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (a) Existing Indebtedness as in effect on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, (b) the Credit Facility as in effect as of the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and any amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof, provided that such amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacement or refinancings are no more restrictive with respect to such dividend and other payment restrictions than those contained in the Credit Facility as in effect on the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, (c) the Senior Note Indenture, this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes, (d) applicable law or any applicable rule, regulation or order, (e) any instrument governing Indebtedness or Capital Stock of a Person acquired by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries as in effect at the time of such acquisition (except to the extent such Indebtedness was incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition), which encumbrance or restriction is not applicable to any Person, or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person, or the property or assets of the Person, so acquired, provided that, in the case of Indebtedness, such Indebtedness was permitted by the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be incurred, (f) by reason of customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices, (g) purchase money obligations for property acquired in the ordinary course of business that impose restrictions of the nature described in clause (iii) above on the property so acquired, (h) Indebtedness of Guarantors, provided that such Indebtedness was permitted to be incurred pursuant to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, (i) Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness, provided that the restrictions contained in the agreements governing such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness are no more restrictive than those contained in the agreements governing the Indebtedness being refinanced, (j) secured Indebtedness otherwise permitted to be incurred pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.12 hereof that limits the right of the debtor to dispose of assets securing such Indebtedness, (k) provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property in joint venture or similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business or (l) any Purchase Money Note, or other Indebtedness or other contractual requirements of a Securitization Entity in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; provided that such restrictions apply only to such Securitization Entity. SECTION 4.09. INCURRENCE OF INDEBTEDNESS AND ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED STOCK. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable, contingently or otherwise, with respect to (collectively, "INCUR") any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) and that the Company shall not issue any Disqualified Stock and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; provided, however, that the Company may incur Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) or issue shares of Disqualified Stock and any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries may incur Indebtedness if the Company's Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company's most recently ended four full fiscal quarters for which internal financial statements are available immediately preceding the date on which such additional Indebtedness is incurred or such Disqualified Stock is issued would have been at least 2.00 to 1, determined on a pro forma basis (including a pro forma application of the net proceeds therefrom), as if the additional Indebtedness had been incurred, or the Disqualified Stock had been issued, as the case may be, at the beginning of such four-quarter period. The provisions of the first paragraph of this Section 4.09 shall not apply to the incurrence of any of the following items of Indebtedness (collectively, "PERMITTED DEBT"): (i) the incurrence by the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries of term Indebtedness under the Credit Facility, letters of credit (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) and related Guarantees under the Credit Facility; provided that the aggregate principal amount of all term Indebtedness and letters of credit of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) outstanding under the Credit Facility after giving effect to such incurrence, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace any other Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (i) does not exceed an amount equal to $550.0 million; (ii) the incurrence by the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries of revolving credit Indebtedness under the Credit Facility, letters of credit (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) and related Guarantees under the Credit Facility; provided that the aggregate principal amount of all revolving Indebtedness and letters of credit of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder) outstanding under the Credit Facility after giving effect to such incurrence, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace any other Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (ii), does not exceed $700.0 million less the aggregate amount of Asset Sale proceeds applied by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to permanently reduce the availability of revolving credit Indebtedness under the Credit Agreements pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.10 hereof; (iii) the incurrence by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries of the Existing Indebtedness; (iv) the incurrence by the Company and the Guarantors of Indebtedness represented by the Senior Notes, the Senior Subordinated Notes, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantees and the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees limited in aggregate principal amount, without duplication, to amounts outstanding under the Senior Note Indenture and this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as of their respective dates; (v) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness represented by Capital Lease Obligations, mortgage financings or purchase money obligations, in each case incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of construction or improvement of property, plant or equipment used in the business of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, in an aggregate principal amount, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (v), not to exceed 5% of Total Assets; (vi) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; (vii) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of intercompany Indebtedness between or among the Company and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; provided, however, that (i) if the Company is the obligor on such Indebtedness, such Indebtedness is expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full in cash of all Obligations with respect to the Senior Subordinated Note and this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, (ii) if a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company is the obligor on such Indebtedness, such Indebtedness is expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full in cash of such Restricted Subsidiary's Senior Subsidiary Guarantee and (iii)(A) any subsequent event or issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such Indebtedness being held by a Person other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and (B) any sale or other transfer of any such Indebtedness to a Person that is not either the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed, in each case, to constitute an incurrence of such Indebtedness by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, that was not permitted by this clause (vii); (viii) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Hedging Obligations that are incurred in the normal course of business for the purpose of fixing or hedging currency, commodity or interest rate risk (including with respect to any Indebtedness that is permitted by the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be outstanding in connection with the conduct of their respective businesses and not for speculative purposes); (ix) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness in the ordinary course of business solely in respect of performance, surety and similar bonds, completion or performance guarantees or standby letters of credit issued for the purpose of supporting workers' compensation liabilities of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, to the extent that such incurrence does not result in the incurrence of any obligation for the payment of borrowed money to others; (x) the incurrence of Indebtedness arising from agreements of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price or similar obligations, in each case, incurred or assumed in connection with the disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary; (xi) the incurrence by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of Indebtedness in connection with and in contemplation of, the concurrent disposition of such Restricted Subsidiary to the stockholders of the Company; provided that such disposition occurs concurrently with such incurrence and following such disposition, neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any liability with respect to such Indebtedness; (xii) the incurrence by a Securitization Entity of Indebtedness in a Qualified Securitization Transaction that is Non-Recourse Debt with respect to the Company and its other Restricted Subsidiaries (except for Standard Securitization Undertakings and Limited Originator Recourse); (xiii) the guarantee by the Company or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that was permitted to be incurred by another provision of this Section 4.09; and (xiv) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount (or accreted value, as applicable) at any time outstanding, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refund, refinance or replace any other Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this clause (xiv), not to exceed $75.0 million. For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.09, in the event that an item of proposed Indebtedness meets the criteria of more than one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in clauses (i) through (xiv) above as of the date of incurrence thereof or is entitled to be incurred pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 4.09 as of the date of incurrence thereof, the Company shall, in its sole discretion, classify or reclassify such item of Indebtedness as of the date of incurrence thereof in any manner that complies with this Section 4.09 and such item of Indebtedness shall be treated as having been incurred pursuant to only one of such clauses or pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 4.09. Accrual of interest, the accretion of accreted value and the payment of interest in the form of additional Indebtedness will not be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness for purposes of this Section 4.09. SECTION 4.10. ASSETS SALES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary receives consideration at the time of such Asset Sale at least equal to the fair market value (evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee with respect to any Asset Sale determined to have a fair market value greater than $25.0 million) of the assets or Equity Interests issued or sold or otherwise disposed of and (ii) at least 75% of the consideration therefor received by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash or Cash Equivalents; provided that the following amounts shall be deemed to be cash: (w) any liabilities (as shown on the Company's or such Restricted Subsidiary's most recent balance sheet), of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company (other than contingent liabilities and liabilities that are by their terms subordinated to the Senior Subordinated Notes or any Guarantee thereof) that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets pursuant to a customary novation agreement that releases the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary from further liability, (x) any securities, notes or other obligations received by the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary from such transferee that are converted by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary into cash within 180 days after the consummation of such Asset Sale (to the extent of the cash received), (y) any Designated Noncash Consideration received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in such Asset Sale; provided that the aggregate fair market value (as determined above) of such Designated Noncash Consideration, taken together with the fair market value at the time of receipt of all other Designated Noncash Consideration received pursuant to this clause (y) less the amount of Net Proceeds previously realized in cash from prior Designated Noncash Consideration is less than 5% of Total Assets at the time of the receipt of such Designated Noncash Consideration (with the fair market value of each item of Designated Noncash Consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value) and (z) Additional Assets received in an exchange-of-assets transaction. Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Company may apply such Net Proceeds, at its option, (a) to repay Senior Debt of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, including, without limitation, Indebtedness under the Senior Notes and any Credit Facility (and to correspondingly permanently reduce the commitments with respect thereto in the case of revolving borrowings), (b) to the acquisition of a controlling interest in another business, the making of a capital expenditure or the acquisition of other long-term assets, in each case, in Permitted Businesses or (c) to an Investment in Additional Assets; provided, that the Company will have complied with clause (c) if, within 365 days of such Asset Sale, the Company shall have entered into a definitive agreement covering such Investment which is thereafter completed within 365 days after the first anniversary of such Asset Sale. Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company may temporarily reduce Indebtedness under any Credit Facility or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by the Indentures. Any Net Proceeds from Asset Sales that are not applied or invested as provided in the first sentence of this paragraph shall be deemed to constitute "EXCESS PROCEEDS." When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20.0 million, the Company shall be required to make an offer to all Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is not Senior Debt that ranks pari passu with the Senior Subordinated Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (a "SENIOR SUBORDINATED ASSET SALE OFFER") to purchase the maximum principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds, at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and such other Indebtedness. To the extent that any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer, the Company may use any remaining Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered into such Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall select the Senior Subordinated Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Upon completion of such offer to purchase, the amount of Excess Proceeds shall be reset at zero. SECTION 4.11. TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or Guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate of any such Person (each of the foregoing, an "AFFILIATE TRANSACTION"), unless (i) such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to the Company or the relevant Restricted Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary with an unrelated Person and (ii) the Company delivers to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (a) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $5.0 million, a resolution of its Board of Directors set forth in an Officers' Certificate certifying that such Affiliate Transaction complies with clause (i) above and that such Affiliate Transaction has been approved by a majority of the disinterested members of its Board of Directors and (b) with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $25.0 million, an opinion as to the fairness to the Holders of such Affiliate Transaction from a financial point of view issued by an investment banking firm (or, if an investment banking firm is generally not qualified to give such an opinion, by an appraisal firm) of national standing; provided that none of the following shall be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions: (1) any employment, severance or termination agreement entered into by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and consistent with the past practice of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, (2) transactions between or among the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries, (3) transactions between or among the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries with FTB Group and Permitted Joint Ventures on terms that are no less favorable to the Company and/or such Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company and/or such Subsidiary with an unrelated Person, (4) any sale or other issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of the Company, (5) Restricted Payments that are permitted by and Investments that are not prohibited by Section 4.07 hereof, (6) fees and compensation paid to members of the Board of Directors of the Company and of its Restricted Subsidiaries in their capacity as such, to the extent such fees and compensation are reasonable and customary, (7) advances to employees for moving, entertainment and travel expenses, drawing accounts and similar expenditures in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices, (8) fees and compensation paid to, and indemnity provided on behalf of, officers, directors or employees of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company or of any such Restricted Subsidiary, to the extent such fees and compensation are reasonable and customary, shall not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and (9) transactions effected as part of a Qualified Securitization Transaction. SECTION 4.12. LIENS. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any Lien of any kind securing Indebtedness, Attributable Debt, or trade payables (other than Permitted Liens) upon any of their property or assets, now owned or hereafter acquired, unless all payments due under this Senior Subordinated Note Indentures and the Senior Subordinated Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligations so secured until such time as such obligations are no longer secured by a Lien. SECTION 4.13. BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, engage in any business other than Permitted Businesses, except to such extent as would not be material to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole. SECTION 4.14. CORPORATE EXISTENCE. Subject to Article 5 hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect (i) its corporate existence, and the corporate, partnership or other existence of each of its Subsidiaries, in accordance with the respective organizational documents (as the same may be amended from time to time) of the Company or any such Subsidiary and (ii) the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company and its Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise, or the corporate, partnership or other existence of any of its Subsidiaries, if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 4.15. OFFER TO PURCHASE UPON CHANGE OF CONTROL. (a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Senior Subordinated Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of such Holder's Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "CHANGE OF CONTROL OFFER") at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase (the "CHANGE OF CONTROL PAYMENT"). Within fifteen days following any Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Senior Subordinated Notes on the date specified in such notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "CHANGE OF CONTROL PAYMENT DATE"), pursuant to the procedures required by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and described in such notice. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Senior Subordinated Notes as a result of a Change of Control. (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (1) accept for payment all Senior Subordinated Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Senior Subordinated Notes or portions thereof so tendered and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee the Senior Subordinated Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company. The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Senior Subordinated Notes so tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Senior Subordinated Notes, and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Senior Subordinated Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered, if any; provided that each such new Senior Subordinated Note will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Prior to complying with the provisions of this Section 4.15, but in any event within 60 days following a Change of Control, the Company will either repay all outstanding Senior Debt or obtain the requisite consents, if any, under all agreements governing outstanding Senior Debt to permit the repurchase of Senior Subordinated Notes required by this Section 4.15. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date. The Change of Control provisions described above will be applicable whether or not any other provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture are applicable. Except as described above with respect to a Change of Control, this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture does not contain provisions that permit the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes to require that the Company repurchase or redeem the Senior Subordinated Notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.15, the Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Senior Subordinated Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. SECTION 4.16. ADDITIONAL SUBORDINATED SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES. If the Company or any of its Domestic Subsidiaries (i) acquires or creates any Domestic Subsidiary after the date of this Senior Subordinated Indenture that is not a Guarantor or (ii) causes or permits any Foreign Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor to, directly or indirectly, guarantee the payment of any Indebtedness of the Company or any Domestic Restricted Subsidiary ("OTHER INDEBTEDNESS") then, in each case the Company shall cause such Subsidiary to simultaneously execute and deliver a supplemental indenture pursuant to which it will become a Guarantor under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; provided, however, that if such Other Indebtedness is (i) Indebtedness that is ranked pari passu in right of payment with the Senior Subordinated Notes or such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes, as the case may be, such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes shall be pari passu in right of payment with such Subsidiary's guarantee of the Other Indebtedness; or (ii) Senior Debt, such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes shall be subordinated in right of payment to the guarantee of Other Indebtedness (which guarantee of such Senior Debt shall provide that the guarantee is senior to such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes to the same extent and in the same manner as the Other Indebtedness is senior to the Senior Subordinated Notes or such Subsidiary's Guarantee of the Senior Subordinated Notes, as the case may be), provided, further, that this covenant does not apply to any Subsidiary that has properly been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture for so long as it continues to constitute an Unrestricted Subsidiary or to any Excluded Subsidiary for so long as it continues to constitute an Excluded Subsidiary. SECTION 4.17. PAYMENT FOR CONSENTS. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration, whether by way of interest, fee or otherwise, to any Holder of any Senior Subordinated Notes for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid or is paid to all Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes that consent, waive or agree to amend in the time frame set forth in the solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement. SECTION 4.18. SALE AND LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; provided that the Company may enter into a sale and leaseback transaction if (i) the Company could have incurred Indebtedness in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt relating to such sale and leaseback transaction pursuant to Section 4.09 hereof and (ii) the gross cash proceeds of such sale and leaseback transaction are at least equal to the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee) of the property that is the subject of such sale and leaseback transaction and (iii) the transfer of assets in such sale and leaseback transaction is permitted by, and the Company applies the proceeds of such transaction in compliance with, Section 4.10 hereof. SECTION 4.19. ANTI-LAYERING. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, (i) the Company will not incur, create, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable directly or indirectly for any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) that is subordinate or junior in right of payment to any Senior Debt and senior in any respect in right of payment to the Senior Subordinated Notes and (ii) no Guarantor will incur, create, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable for any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) that is subordinate or junior in right of payment to any Senior Debt of a Guarantor and senior in any respect in right of payment to any Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee. SECTION 4.20. CERTAIN COVENANTS TO BE SUSPENDED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS. The covenants set forth in Section 4.01 through Section 4.19, inclusive, of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall be applicable to the Company (and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries, as appropriate) except that during any period of time that (i) the ratings assigned to the Senior Subordinated Notes by both Standard & Poor's Ratings Group ("S&P") and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("MOODY'S" and, together with S&P, the "RATING AGENCIES") are equal to or higher than BBB-- and Baa3, or the equivalents thereof, respectively (the "INVESTMENT GRADE RATINGS"), except subsequent to a Change of Control of the Company, and (ii) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Company and its Subsidiaries will not be subject to the provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture described in Sections 4.07 through 4.11, inclusive, and Section 4.18, (collectively, the "SUSPENDED COVENANTS"). In the event that the Company is not subject to the Suspended Covenants for any period of time as a result of the preceding sentence (a "SUSPENSION PERIOD") and, subsequently, one or both Rating Agencies withdraws its ratings or downgrades the ratings assigned to the Senior Subordinated Notes below the required Investment Grade Ratings, then, from and after the date of such withdrawal or downgrade, the Company and its Subsidiaries will again be subject to the Suspended Covenants and compliance with the Suspended Covenants with respect to Restricted Payments made after the time of such withdrawal or downgrade will be calculated in accordance with the terms of Section 4.07 as if such covenant had been in effect during the entire period of time from the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the continued existence, after the date of such withdrawal or downgrade, of facts and circumstances that were incurred or otherwise came into being during a Suspension Period shall not constitute a breach of any covenant set forth in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or a Default or Event of Default hereunder. ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSORS SECTION 5.01. MERGER, CONSOLIDATION OR SALE OF ASSETS. The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, consolidate or merge with or into (whether or not the Company is the surviving corporation), or sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties or assets in one or more related transactions, to another Person unless (i) the Company is the surviving corporation or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made is a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (ii) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement, the Senior Subordinated Notes and this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture pursuant to a supplemental indenture in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee; (iii) immediately before and after such transaction no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred; and (iv) except in the case of a merger of the Company with or into a Subsidiary, the Company or Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made will, immediately after such transaction after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, (A) be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof or (B) the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company or the entity or Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made would, immediately after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such transaction had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, not be less than such Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries immediately prior to such transaction. The Company may not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of its properties or assets, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person. The provisions of this Section 5.01 will not be applicable to a sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries. SECTION 5.02. SUCCESSOR CORPORATION SUBSTITUTED. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 hereof, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture referring to the "Company" shall refer instead to the successor corporation and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; provided, however, that the predecessor Company shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Company's assets that meets the requirements of Section 5.01 hereof. ARTICLE 6 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES SECTION 6.01. EVENTS OF DEFAULT. An "EVENT OF DEFAULT" occurs if: (a) the Company defaults in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Senior Subordinated Notes and such default continues for a period of 30 days (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of Article 10); (b) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon redemption (including in connection with an offer to purchase) or otherwise (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of Article 10); (c) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Section 5.01; (d) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 30 days after notice to comply with the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 hereof; (e) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 60 days after notice to observe or perform any other covenant, representation, warranty or other agreement in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes; (f) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries defaults under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, which default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "PAYMENT DEFAULT") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $20.0 million or more; (g) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $20.0 million (excluding amounts covered by insurance), which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (h) the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case, (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, (iii) consents to the appointment of a custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property, (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (v) generally is not paying its debts as they become due; (i) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (i) is for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case; (ii) appoints a custodian of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary or for all or substantially all of the property of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; or (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days; or (j) except as permitted by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. SECTION 6.02. ACCELERATION. If any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (g) or (h) of Section 6.01 hereof with respect to the Company, any Significant Subsidiary that is a Restricted Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary) occurs and is continuing, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may declare all the Senior Subordinated Notes to be due and payable immediately. Upon any such declaration, the Senior Subordinated Notes shall become due and payable immediately. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in clause (g) or (h) of Section 6.01 hereof occurs with respect to the Company, any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes shall be due and payable without further action or notice. Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes may not enforce this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes except as provided in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. If an Event of Default occurs prior to August 1, 2003 by reason of any willful action (or inaction) taken (or not taken) by or on behalf of the Company with the intention of avoiding the prohibition on redemption of the Senior Subordinated Notes prior to August 1, 2003, then the premium specified in this Senior Subordinated Indenture shall also become immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. SECTION 6.03. OTHER REMEDIES. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Senior Subordinated Notes or this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Senior Subordinated Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or any Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law. SECTION 6.04. WAIVER OF PAST DEFAULTS. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding by notice to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Senior Subordinated Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Senior Subordinated Notes (including in connection with an offer to purchase); provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon. SECTION 6.05. CONTROL BY MAJORITY. Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes or that may involve the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in personal liability. . SECTION 6.06. LIMITATION ON SUITS. A Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note may pursue a remedy with respect to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes only if: (a) the Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note gives to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default; (b) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes make a written request to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to pursue the remedy; (c) such Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note or Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes offer and, if requested, provide to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee against any loss, liability or expense; (d) the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer and, if requested, the provision of indemnity; and (e) during such 60-day period the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes do not give the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request. A Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note may not use this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note. SECTION 6.07. RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES TO RECEIVE PAYMENT. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note to receive payment of principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Senior Subordinated Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Senior Subordinated Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder. SECTION 6.08. COLLECTION SUIT BY SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b) occurs and is continuing, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on the Senior Subordinated Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, its agents and counsel. SECTION 6.09. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE MAY FILE PROOFS OF CLAIM. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Senior Subordinated Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, and in the event that the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Senior Subordinated Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. SECTION 6.10. PRIORITIES. If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following order: First: to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection; Second: to Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Senior Subordinated Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Senior Subordinated Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any and interest, respectively; and Third: to the Company. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10. SECTION 6.11. UNDERTAKING FOR COSTS. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or in any suit against the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes. ARTICLE 7 SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE SECTION 7.01. DUTIES OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default: (i) the duties of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture against the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee; and (ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates of opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). (c) The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section; (ii) the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (iii) the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof. (d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that in any way relates to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) of this Section and Section 7.02. (e) No provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall require the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder shall have offered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. (f) The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. SECTION 7.02. RIGHTS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE. (a) The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document. (b) Before the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon. (c) The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care. (d) The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. (e) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company or any Guarantor shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company or Guarantor issuing such demand, request or notice. (f) The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction. SECTION 7.03. INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Senior Subordinated Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof. SECTION 7.04. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE'S DISCLAIMER. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Senior Subordinated Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, it shall not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, and it shall not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Senior Subordinated Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Senior Subordinated Notes or pursuant to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture other than its certificate of authentication. SECTION 7.05. NOTICE OF DEFAULTS. If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall mail to Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Senior Subordinated Note, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 7.06. REPORTS BY SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE TO HOLDERS OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. Within 60 days after each August 1 beginning with the August 1 following the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and for so long as Senior Subordinated Notes remain outstanding, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall mail to the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA ss. 313(a) (but if no event described in TIA ss. 313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted). The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee also shall comply with TIA ss. 313(b)(2). The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA ss. 313(c). A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Senior Subordinated Notes are listed in accordance with TIA ss. 313(d). The Company shall promptly notify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee when the Senior Subordinated Notes are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom. SECTION 7.07. COMPENSATION AND INDEMNITY. The Company and the Guarantors shall pay to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee from time to time such compensation as agreed upon in writing for its acceptance of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and services hereunder. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of an express trust. The Company and the Guarantors shall reimburse the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee promptly upon request for all disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee's agents and counsel. The Company and the Guarantors shall indemnify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (including taxes other than taxes based upon the income of the Senior Note Trustee) incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture against the Company and the Guarantors (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company and the Guarantors or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company and the Guarantors of its obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The obligations of the Company and the Guarantors under this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. To secure the Company's and the Guarantors' payment obligations in this Section, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Senior Subordinated Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Senior Subordinated Notes. Such Lien shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. When the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or (h) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall comply with the provisions of TIA ss. 313(b)(2) to the extent applicable. SECTION 7.08. REPLACEMENT OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE. A resignation or removal of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and appointment of a successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company. The Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may remove the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee by so notifying the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company may remove the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee if: (a) the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof; (b) the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law; (c) a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or its property; or (d) the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee becomes incapable of acting. If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Senior Subordinated Note Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Within one year after the successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may appoint a successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to replace the successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee appointed by the Company. If a successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Senior Subordinated Note Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, after written request by any Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note who has been a Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the appointment of a successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. A successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes. The retiring Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to the successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, provided all sums owing to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (including its agents and/or counsel) hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof. Notwithstanding replacement of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 hereof shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. SECTION 7.09. SUCCESSOR SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE BY MERGER, ETC. If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. SECTION 7.10. ELIGIBILITY; DISQUALIFICATION. There shall at all times be a Senior Subordinated Note Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate Senior Subordinated Note Trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50.0 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. This Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall always have a Senior Subordinated Note Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA ss. 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is subject to TIA ss. 310(b). SECTION 7.11. PREFERENTIAL COLLECTION OF CLAIMS AGAINST COMPANY. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is subject to TIA ss. 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA ss. 311(b). A Senior Subordinated Note Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA ss. 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. SECTION 7.12. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE'S APPLICATION FOR INSTRUCTIONS FROM THE COMPANY. Any application by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by, or omission of, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to the taking of such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted. ARTICLE 8 LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE SECTION 8.01. OPTION TO EFFECT LEGAL DEFEASANCE OR COVENANT DEFEASANCE. The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8. SECTION 8.02. LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND DISCHARGE. Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes and to have each Guarantor's obligation discharged with respect to its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "LEGAL DEFEASANCE"). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Senior Subordinated Notes and this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.04 hereof, and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on such Senior Subordinated Notes when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Senior Subordinated Notes under Article 2 and Section 4.02 hereof, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee hereunder and the Company's obligations in connection therewith and (d) this Article 8. Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof. SECTION 8.03. COVENANT DEFEASANCE. Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company and each Guarantor shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from their obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.15, 4.16 and 4.17 hereof with respect to the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "COVENANT DEFEASANCE"), and the Senior Subordinated Notes shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Senior Subordinated Notes shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes, the Company and each Guarantor may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and such Senior Subordinated Notes shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(d) through 6.01(f) hereof shall not constitute Events of Default. SECTION 8.04. CONDITIONS TO LEGAL OR COVENANT DEFEASANCE. The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof to the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes: In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance: (a) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in United States dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Senior Subordinated Notes are being defeased to maturity or to a particular redemption date; (b) in the case of an election under Section 8.02 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee confirming that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred; (c) in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred; (d) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the incurrence of Indebtedness all or a portion of the proceeds of which will be used to defease the Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to this Article 8 concurrently with such incurrence) or insofar as Sections 6.01(g) or 6.01(h) hereof is concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit; (e) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture) to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound; (f) the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee an Opinion of Counsel (which may be subject to customary exceptions) to the effect that after the 91st day following the deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally; (g) the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders over any other creditors of the Company or with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any creditors of the Company or others; and (h) the Company shall have delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for or relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with. SECTION 8.05. DEPOSITED MONEY AND GOVERNMENT SECURITIES TO BE HELD IN TRUST; OTHER MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (or other qualifying Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE") pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes shall be held in trust and applied by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Senior Subordinated Notes and this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Senior Subordinated Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Company and the Guarantors shall pay and indemnify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes. Anything in this Article 8 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(a) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. SECTION 8.06. REPAYMENT TO COMPANY. Any money deposited with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Senior Subordinated Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Senior Subordinated Note shall thereafter, as a secured creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company. SECTION 8.07. REINSTATEMENT. If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Senior Subordinated Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; provided, however, that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Senior Subordinated Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Senior Subordinated Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or Paying Agent. ARTICLE 9 AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER SECTION 9.01. WITHOUT CONSENT OF HOLDERS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Company, the Guarantors and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may amend or supplement this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes without the consent of any Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note: (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; (b) to provide for uncertificated Senior Subordinated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Senior Subordinated Notes or to alter the provisions of Article 2 hereof (including the related definitions) in a manner that does not materially adversely affect any Holder; (c) to provide for the assumption of the Company's or a Guarantor's obligations to the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes by a successor to the Company or a Guarantor pursuant to Article 5 or Article 11 hereof; (d) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights hereunder of any Holder of the Senior Subordinated Note; (e) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture under the TIA; or (f) to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and/or a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and upon receipt by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of any amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or otherwise. SECTION 9.02. WITH CONSENT OF HOLDERS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may amend or supplement this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (including Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof), the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees and the Senior Subordinated Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding voting as a single class (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Senior Subordinated Notes), and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes voting as a single class (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Senior Subordinated Notes). Without the consent of at least 75% in principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, such Senior Subordinated Notes), no waiver or amendment to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture may make any change in the provisions of Article 10 hereof that adversely affects the rights of any Holder of Senior Subordinated Notes. Section 2.08 hereof shall determine which Senior Subordinated Notes are considered to be "outstanding" for purposes of this Section 9.02. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and upon the filing with the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture unless such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture directly affects the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding voting as a single class may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not (with respect to any Senior Subordinated Notes held by a non-consenting Holder): (a) reduce the principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; (b) reduce the principal of or change the fixed maturity of any Senior Subordinated Note or alter or waive any of the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Senior Subordinated Notes except as provided above with respect to Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof; (c) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest, including default interest, on any Senior Subordinated Note; (d) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes (except a rescission of acceleration of the Senior Subordinated Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration); (e) make any Senior Subordinated Note payable in money other than that stated in the Senior Subordinated Notes; (f) make any change in the provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes to receive payments of principal of or premium, interest or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes; (g) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Senior Subordinated Note (other than a payment required pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15); (h) make any change in Section 6.04 or 6.07 hereof or in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions; or (i) release any Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee or this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, except in accordance with the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. SECTION 9.03. COMPLIANCE WITH TRUST INDENTURE ACT. Every amendment or supplement to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes shall be set forth in a amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect. SECTION 9.04. REVOCATION AND EFFECT OF CONSENTS. Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note and every subsequent Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note or portion of a Senior Subordinated Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Senior Subordinated Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Senior Subordinated Note. However, any such Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note or subsequent Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note may revoke the consent as to its Senior Subordinated Note if the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the waiver, supplement or amendment becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder. SECTION 9.05. NOTATION ON OR EXCHANGE OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Senior Subordinated Note thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for all Senior Subordinated Notes may issue and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Senior Subordinated Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver. Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Senior Subordinated Note shall not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver. SECTION 9.06. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE TO SIGN AMENDMENTS, ETC. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall sign any amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture until the Board of Directors approves it. In executing any amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04 hereof, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended or supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture is authorized or permitted by this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. ARTICLE 10 SUBORDINATION SECTION 10.01. AGREEMENT TO SUBORDINATE. The Company and the Guarantors agree, and each Holder by accepting a Senior Subordinated Note agrees, that the Indebtedness evidenced by the Senior Subordinated Notes is subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in this Article 10, to the prior payment in full in cash or Cash Equivalents of all Senior Debt (whether outstanding on the date hereof or hereafter created, incurred, assumed or guaranteed), and that the subordination is for the benefit of the holders of Senior Debt. SECTION 10.02. LIQUIDATION; DISSOLUTION; BANKRUPTCY. Upon any distribution to creditors of the Company in a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or in a bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding relating to the Company or its property, in an assignment for the benefit of creditors or any marshaling of the Company's assets and liabilities: (a) holders of Senior Debt shall be entitled to receive payment in full in cash or Cash Equivalents of all Obligations due in respect of such Senior Debt (including interest after the commencement of any such proceeding at the rate specified in the agreement or instrument governing the applicable Senior Debt, whether or not allowed or allowable as a claim in any such proceeding) before Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes shall be entitled to receive any payment with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes (except that Holders may receive and retain (i) Permitted Junior Securities and (ii) payments and other distributions made from any defeasance trust created pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof); and (b) until all Obligations with respect to Senior Debt (as provided in subsection (1) above) are paid in full in cash or Cash Equivalents, any distribution to which Holders would be entitled but for this Article 10 shall be made to holders of Senior Debt (except that Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes may receive (i) Permitted Junior Securities and (ii) payments and other distributions made from any defeasance trust created pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof), as their interests may appear. A distribution may consist of cash, securities or other property, by set-off or otherwise. SECTION 10.03. DEFAULT ON DESIGNATED SENIOR DEBT. The Company may not make any payment or distribution to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or any Holder in respect of Obligations upon or in respect of the Senior Subordinated Notes and may not acquire from the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or any Holder any Senior Subordinated Notes for cash or property (other than (i) in Permitted Junior Securities and (ii) from payments and other distributions made from any defeasance trust created pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof) until all principal and other Obligations with respect to the Senior Debt have been paid in full in cash or Cash Equivalents if: (a) a default in the payment of any principal or other Obligations with respect to Designated Senior Debt occurs and is continuing; or (b) any other default occurs and is continuing with respect to Designated Senior Debt that permits holders of the Designated Senior Debt as to which such default relates to accelerate its maturity (or that would permit such holders to accelerate with the giving of notice or the passage of time or both) and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee receives a notice of the default (a "PAYMENT BLOCKAGE NOTICE") from a Person who may give it pursuant to Section 10.11 hereof. If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee receives any such Payment Blockage Notice, no subsequent Payment Blockage Notice shall be effective for purposes of this Section unless and until (i) 360 days shall have elapsed since the effectiveness of the immediately prior Payment Blockage Notice and (ii) all scheduled payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes that have come due have been paid in full in cash. No nonpayment default that existed or was continuing on the date of delivery of any Payment Blockage Notice to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall be, or be made, the basis for a subsequent Payment Blockage Notice unless such default shall have been waived for a period of not less than 180 days. The Company may and shall resume payments on and distributions in respect of the Senior Subordinated Notes and may acquire them upon the earlier of: (i) the date upon which the default is cured or waived, or (ii) in the case of a default referred to in Section 10.03(b) hereof, 179 days after the date on which the applicable Payment Blockage Notice is received, unless the maturity of any Designated Senior Debt has been accelerated, if this Article 10 otherwise permits the payment, distribution or acquisition at the time of such payment or acquisition. SECTION 10.04. ACCELERATION OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. If payment of the Senior Subordinated Notes is accelerated because of an Event of Default, the Company shall promptly notify holders of Senior Debt of such acceleration. SECTION 10.05. WHEN DISTRIBUTION MUST BE PAID OVER. In the event that the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or any Holder receives any payment of any Obligations with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes at a time when the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or such Holder, as applicable, has actual knowledge that such payment is prohibited by Article 10 hereof, such payment shall be held by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or such Holder, in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid forthwith over and delivered, upon written request, to, the holders of Senior Debt as their interests may appear or their Representative under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or other agreement (if any) pursuant to which Senior Debt may have been issued, as their respective interests may appear, for application to the payment of all Obligations with respect to Senior Debt remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to pay such Obligations in full in accordance with their terms, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the holders of Senior Debt. With respect to the holders of Senior Debt, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee undertakes to perform only such obligations on the part of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee as are specifically set forth in this Article 10, and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to the holders of Senior Debt shall be read into this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture against the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of Senior Debt, and shall not be liable to any such holders if the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall pay over or distribute to or on behalf of Holders or the Company or any other Person money or assets to which any holders of Senior Debt shall be entitled by virtue of this Article 10, except if such payment is made as a result of the willful misconduct or gross negligence of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. SECTION 10.06. NOTICE BY COMPANY. The Company shall promptly notify the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the Paying Agent of any facts known to the Company that would cause a payment of any Obligations with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes to violate this Article 10, but failure to give such notice shall not affect the subordination of the Senior Subordinated Notes to the Senior Debt as provided in this Article 10. SECTION 10.07. SUBROGATION. After all Senior Debt is paid in full in cash and until the Senior Subordinated Notes are paid in full, Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes shall be subrogated (equally and ratably with all other Indebtedness pari passu with the Senior Subordinated Notes) to the rights of holders of Senior Debt to receive distributions applicable to Senior Debt to the extent that distributions otherwise payable to the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes have been applied to the payment of Senior Debt. A distribution made under this Article 10 to holders of Senior Debt that otherwise would have been made to Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes is not, as between the Company and Holders, a payment by the Company on the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 10.08. RELATIVE RIGHTS. This Article 10 defines the relative rights of Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes and holders of Senior Debt. Nothing in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall: (a) impair, as between the Company and Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes, the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes in accordance with their terms; (b) affect the relative rights of Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes and creditors of the Company other than their rights in relation to holders of Senior Debt; or (c) prevent the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or any Holder of Senior Subordinated Notes from exercising its available remedies upon a Default or Event of Default, subject to (i) the rights of holders and owners of Senior Debt to receive distributions and payments otherwise payable to Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes and (ii) the notice provisions of Section 6.02 hereof. If the Company fails because of this Article 10 to pay principal of or interest on a Senior Subordinated Note on the due date, the failure is still a Default or Event of Default. SECTION 10.09. SUBORDINATION MAY NOT BE IMPAIRED BY COMPANY. No right of any holder of Senior Debt to enforce the subordination of the Indebtedness evidenced by the Senior Subordinated Notes shall be impaired by any act or failure to act by the Company or any Holder or by the failure of the Company or any Holder to comply with this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. SECTION 10.10. DISTRIBUTION OR NOTICE TO REPRESENTATIVE. Whenever a distribution is to be made or a notice given to holders of Senior Debt, the distribution may be made and the notice given to their Representative. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article 10, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree made by any court of competent jurisdiction or upon any certificate of such Representative or of the liquidating Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or agent or other Person making any distribution to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or to the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders of the Senior Debt and other Indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article 10. SECTION 10.11. RIGHTS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE AND PAYING AGENT. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 10 or any other provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts that would prohibit the making of any payment or distribution by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the Paying Agent may continue to make payments on the Senior Subordinated Notes, unless the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall have received at its Corporate Trust Office at least five Business Days prior to the date of such payment written notice of facts that would cause the payment of any Obligations with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes to violate this Article 10. Only the Company or a Representative may give the notice. Nothing in this Article 10 shall impair the claims of, or payments to, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under or pursuant to Section 7.07 hereof. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may hold Senior Debt with the same rights it would have if it were not Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. SECTION 10.12. AUTHORIZATION TO EFFECT SUBORDINATION. Each Holder of Senior Subordinated Notes, by the Holder's acceptance thereof, authorizes and directs the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee on such Holder's behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in this Article 10, and appoints the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to act as such Holder's attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes. If the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee does not file a proper proof of claim or proof of debt in the form required in any proceeding referred to in Section 6.09 hereof at least 30 days before the expiration of the time to file such claim, the credit agents are hereby authorized to file an appropriate claim for and on behalf of the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 10.13. AMENDMENTS. The provisions of this Article 10 shall not be amended or modified in a manner that is adverse to the holders of all Senior Debt without the written consent of the holders of all Senior Debt. ARTICLE 11 SUBORDINATED SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES SECTION 11.01. GUARANTEE. Subject to this Article 11, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note authenticated and delivered by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Subordinated Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (a) the principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Senior Subordinated Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection. The Guarantors hereby agree that their obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Senior Subordinated Notes or this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Senior Subordinated Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Senior Subordinated Notes and this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. If any Holder or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors or any custodian, Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or such Holder, this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. Each Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 hereof for the purposes of this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. SECTION 11.02. SUBORDINATION OF SUBORDINATED SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE The Obligations of each Guarantor under its Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee pursuant to this Article 11 shall be junior and subordinated to the Senior Debt of such Guarantor on the same basis as the Senior Subordinated Notes are junior and subordinated to Senior Debt of the Company. For the purposes of the foregoing sentence, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and the Holders shall have the right to receive and/or retain payments by any of the Guarantors only at such times as they may receive and/or retain payments in respect of the Senior Subordinated Notes pursuant to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, including Article 11 hereof. SECTION 11.03. LIMITATION ON GUARANTOR LIABILITY. Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Senior Subordinated Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee and this Article 11 shall be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article 11, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. SECTION 11.04. EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF SENIOR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE. To evidence its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in Section 11.01, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such Senior Subsidiary Guarantee substantially in the form included in Exhibit E shall be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Senior Subordinated Note authenticated and delivered by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and that this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by its President or one of its Vice Presidents. Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in Section 11.01 shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Senior Subordinated Note a notation of such Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. If an Officer whose signature is on this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or on the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee authenticates the Senior Subordinated Note on which a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed, the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless. The delivery of any Senior Subordinated Note by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors. In the event that the Company creates or acquires any new Subsidiaries subsequent to the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, if required by Section 4.16 hereof, the Company shall cause such Subsidiaries to execute supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indentures to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees in accordance with Section 4.16 hereof and this Article 11, to the extent applicable. SECTION 11.05. GUARANTORS MAY CONSOLIDATE, ETC. ON CERTAIN TERMS. No Guarantor may consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor unless: (a) subject to Section 11.04 hereof, the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than a Guarantor or the Company) unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, under the Senior Subordinated Notes, this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement and the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (c) the Company would be permitted, immediately after giving effect to such transaction, to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof. In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, executed and delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, of the Senior Subsidiary Guarantee endorsed upon the Senior Subordinated Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Senior Subordinated Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. All the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as though all of such Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 hereof, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or in any of the Senior Subordinated Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor. SECTION 11.06. RELEASES FOLLOWING SALE OF ASSETS. In the event of (a) a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, (b) a sale or other disposition of all of the capital stock of any Guarantor or (c) the designation of a Guarantor as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with the terms of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof. Upon delivery by the Company to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as provided in this Article 11. ARTICLE 12 MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 12.01. TRUST INDENTURE ACT CONTROLS. If any provision of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA ss.318(c), the imposed duties shall control. SECTION 12.02. NOTICES. Any notice or communication by the Company, any Guarantor or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address. If to the Company and/or any Guarantor: Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: Treasurer With a copy to: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Illinois) 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100 Chicago, Illinois 60606 Telecopier No.: (312) 407-0411 Attention: Brian W. Duwe If to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee: The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Telecopier No.: (212) 815-5915 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration The Company, any Guarantor or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery. Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail postage prepaid, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA ss. 313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it. If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and each Agent at the same time. SECTION 12.03. COMMUNICATION BY HOLDERS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES WITH OTHER HOLDERS OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA ss. 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA ss. 312(c). SECTION 12.04. CERTIFICATE AND OPINION AS TO CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee to take any action under this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee: (a) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and (b) except with respect to the initial issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes, an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied. SECTION 12.05. STATEMENTS REQUIRED IN CERTIFICATE. Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA ss. 314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA ss. 314(e) and shall include: (a) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (c) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied. SECTION 12.06. RULES BY SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE AND AGENTS. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions. SECTION 12.07. NO PERSONAL LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND STOCKHOLDERS. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Senior Subordinated Notes, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees, this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Senior Subordinated Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes. SECTION 12.08. GOVERNING LAW. THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE, THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES AND THE SUBORDINATED SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. SECTION 12.09. NO ADVERSE INTERPRETATION OF OTHER AGREEMENTS. This Senior Subordinated Note Indenture may not be used to interpret any other Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. SECTION 12.10. SUCCESSORS. All agreements of the Company in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Senior Subordinated Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall bind its successors. SECTION 12.11. SEVERABILITY. In case any provision in this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or in the Senior Subordinated Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. SECTION 12.12. COUNTERPART ORIGINALS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. SECTION 12.13. TABLE OF CONTENTS, HEADINGS, ETC. The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof. [Signatures on following page]
SIGNATURES Dated as of August 10, 1998 Amended and Restated as of December 19, 2002 THE COMPANY: BALL CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS: BALL AEROSPACE AND TECHNOLOGIES CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL ASIA SERVICES LIMITED (a successor to Ball Asia Pacific Limited) By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL GLASS CONTAINER CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL HOLDINGS CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL METAL BEVERAGE CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ David A. Westerlund ---------------------------------------- Name: David A. Westerlund Title: Vice President BALL METAL FOOD CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL METAL PACKAGING SALES CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PACKAGING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PLASTIC CONTAINER CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL TECHNOLOGIES HOLDING CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BG HOLDINGS I, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BG HOLDINGS II, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer EFRATOM HOLDING, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer LATAS DE ALUMINIO BALL, INC. (formerly known as Latas de Aluminio Reynolds, Inc.) By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PAN-EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ---------------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Treasurer THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee By: /s/ Van K. Brown ---------------------------------------- Name: Van K. Brown Title: Vice President
EXHIBIT A-1 (FACE OF SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE) ......... [INSERT THE GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE LEGEND, IF APPLICABLE PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE] [INSERT THE PRIVATE PLACEMENT LEGEND, IF APPLICABLE PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE] CUSIP/CINS 8 1/4% [SERIES A] [SERIES B] SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2008 No. ________________ $_______________ BALL CORPORATION promises to pay to ____________ or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________________ Dollars on August 1, 2008. Interest Payment Dates: February 1 and August 1 Record Dates: January 15 and July 15 BALL CORPORATION By:_______________________ Name: Title: This is one of the [Global] Senior Subordinated Notes referred to in the within- mentioned Senior Subordinated Note Indenture: Dated: August 10, 1998 THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee By:_______________________ Name: Title: (Back of Senior Subordinated Note) __% [Series A] [Series B] Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated. 1. INTEREST. Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "COMPANY"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Senior Subordinated Note at 81/4% per annum from August 10, 1998 until maturity and shall pay the Liquidated Damages payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company will pay interest and Liquidated Damages semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "INTEREST PAYMENT DATE"). Interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Senior Subordinated Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be February 1, 1999. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Senior Subordinated Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 2. METHOD OF PAYMENT. The Company will pay interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes (except defaulted interest) and Liquidated Damages to the Persons who are registered Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes at the close of business on the January 15 or July 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Senior Subordinated Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages on the Senior Subordinated Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Liquidated Damages may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; provided that all payments of principal, premium, interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, with respect to Notes the Holders of which have given wire transfer instructions to the Trustee will be required to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. 3. PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR. Initially, The Bank of New York, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity. 4. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE. The Company issued the Senior Subordinated Notes under a Senior Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998 ("SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE") between the Company and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The terms of the Senior Subordinated Notes include those stated in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and those made part of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Codess.ss.77aaa-77bbbb). The Senior Subordinated Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Senior Subordinated Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the provisions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Senior Subordinated Notes are obligations of the Company limited to $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount. 5. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION (a) The Senior Subordinated Notes will not be subject to redemption at the option of the Company prior to August 1, 2003. Thereafter, the Senior Subordinated Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1 of the years indicated below: YEAR PERCENTAGE 2003 104.125% 2004 102.750% 2005 101.375% 2006 and thereafter 100.000% (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (a) of this Paragraph 5, during the first 36 months after August 5, 1998, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes issued under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture at a redemption price of 108.250% of the principal amount thereof, plus in such case accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of any Public Equity Offering; provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes issued remain outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption (excluding Senior Subordinated Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries); and provided, further, that such redemption shall occur within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Public Equity Offering. (c) Any redemption pursuant to this Paragraph 5 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. 6. MANDATORY REDEMPTION. Except as set forth in Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes. 7. REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER. (a) If there is a Change of Control, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "CHANGE OF CONTROL OFFER") to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Senior Subordinated Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase (the "CHANGE OF CONTROL PAYMENT"). Within 15 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. (b) If the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary consummates any Asset Sales and the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20.0 million, the Company shall commence an offer to all Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes (a "SENIOR SUBORDINATED ASSET SALE OFFER") pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to purchase the maximum principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date fixed for the closing of such offer, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Senior Subordinated Notes tendered pursuant to a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company (or such Subsidiary) may use such deficiency for any purpose not prohibited by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall select the Senior Subordinated Notes to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase will receive a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer from the Company prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Senior Subordinated Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Senior Subordinated Notes. 8. NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Senior Subordinated Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Senior Subordinated Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Senior Subordinated Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Senior Subordinated Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. 9. DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE. The Senior Subordinated Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Senior Subordinated Notes may be registered and Senior Subordinated Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The Registrar and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Subordinated Note or portion of a Senior Subordinated Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Senior Subordinated Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Subordinated Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date. 10. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS. The registered Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes. 11. AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER. Subject to certain exceptions, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes voting as a single class, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Senior Subordinated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Senior Subordinated Notes, to provide for the assumption of the Company's or Guarantor's obligations to Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes in case of a merger or consolidation, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture of any such Holder, to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act or to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and/or a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes. Without the consent of at least 75% in principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, such Senior Subordinated Notes), no waiver or amendment to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture may make any change in the provisions of Article 10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that adversely affects the rights of any Holder of Senior Subordinated Notes. 12. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES. An "EVENT OF DEFAULT" occurs if: (i) the Company defaults in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Senior Subordinated Notes and such default continues for a period of 30 days (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of Article 10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture); (ii) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon redemption (including in connection with an offer to purchase) or otherwise (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of Article 10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture); (iii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Sections 5.01; (iv) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply for 30 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee with any of the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; (v) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to observe or perform any other covenant, representation, warranty or other agreement in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes for 60 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee; (vi) a default occurs under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, which default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "PAYMENT DEFAULT") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $20.0 million or more; (vii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $20.0 million (excluding amounts covered by insurance), which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (viii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency occur with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law; or (ix) except as permitted by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may declare all the Senior Subordinated Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes except as provided in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may direct the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding by notice to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Senior Subordinated Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. 13. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. 14. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company or any of the Guarantors, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Senior Subordinated Notes, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Senior Subordinated Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes. 15. AUTHENTICATION. This Senior Subordinated Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or an authenticating agent. 16. ABBREVIATIONS. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act). 17. ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES AND RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes and Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes shall have all the rights set forth in the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998, between the Company and the parties named on the signature pages thereof (the "SUBORDINATED REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT"). 18. CUSIP NUMBERS. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Senior Subordinated Notes and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Senior Subordinated Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and/or the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to: Ball Corporation Colorado Office Center 9300 West 108th Circle Broomfield, CO 80021-3682 Attention: Chief Financial Officer
ASSIGNMENT FORM To assign this Senior Subordinated Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Senior Subordinated Note to ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. no.) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint_______________________________________________________________ to transfer this Senior Subordinated Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Date: Your Signature:______________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Subordinated Note) Tax Identification No:_____________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:______________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase If you want to elect to have this Senior Subordinated Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, check the box below: [ ] Section 4.10 [ ] Section 4.15 If you want to elect to have only part of the Senior Subordinated Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $_____________ Date: Your Signature:__________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Subordinated Note) Tax Identification No:_____________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:______________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS IN THE GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE (1) The following exchanges of a part of this Global Senior Subordinated Note for an interest in another Global Senior Subordinated Note or for a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Senior Subordinated Note or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note for an interest in this Global Senior Subordinated Note, have been made:
EXHIBIT A-2 (Face of Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note) THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE PAYMENT OF INTEREST HEREON. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISION OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (1)(a) TO A PERSON WHO THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (b) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A FOREIGN PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (d) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE COMPANY OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN (A) ABOVE.
CUSIP/CINS 8 1/4% SERIES A SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2008 No._____ $__________ BALL CORPORATION promises to pay to ____________ or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________________ Dollars on August 1, 2008. Interest Payment Dates: February 1 and August 1 Record Dates: January 15 and July 15 BALL CORPORATION By:_____________________ Name: Title: This is one of the [Global] Senior Subordinated Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Senior Subordinated Note Indenture: Dated: August 10, 1998 THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee By:___________________________ Name: Title:
(Back of Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note) 8 1/4% Series A Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated. 1. INTEREST. Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "COMPANY"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Senior Subordinated Note at 81/4% per annum from August 10, 1998 until maturity and shall pay the Liquidated Damages payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company will pay interest and Liquidated Damages semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "INTEREST PAYMENT DATE"). Interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Senior Subordinated Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be February 1, 1999. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Senior Subordinated Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Until this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note is exchanged for one or more Regulation S Permanent Global Senior Subordinated Notes, the Holder hereof shall not be entitled to receive payments of interest hereon; until so exchanged in full, this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note shall in all other respects be entitled to the same benefits as other Senior Subordinated Notes under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. 2. METHOD OF PAYMENT. The Company will pay interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes (except defaulted interest) and Liquidated Damages to the Persons who are registered Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes at the close of business on the January 15 or July 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Senior Subordinated Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages on the Senior Subordinated Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Liquidated Damages may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; provided that all payments of principal, premium, interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, with respect to Notes the Holders of which have given wire transfer instructions to the Trustee will be required to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. 3. PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR. Initially, The Bank of New York, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity. 4. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE. The Company issued the Senior Subordinated Notes under an Senior Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998 ("SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE") between the Company and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. The terms of the Senior Subordinated Notes include those stated in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and those made part of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The Senior Subordinated Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Senior Subordinated Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the provisions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Senior Subordinated Notes are obligations of the Company limited to $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount. 5. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION (a) The Senior Subordinated Notes will not be subject to redemption at the option of the Company prior to August 1, 2003. Thereafter, the Senior Subordinated Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1 of the years indicated below: YEAR PERCENTAGE 2003 104.125% 2004 102.750% 2005 101.375% 2006 and thereafter 100.000% (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (a) of this Paragraph 5, during the first 36 months after August 5, 1998, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes issued under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture at a redemption price of 108.250% of the principal amount thereof, plus in such case accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of any Public Equity Offering; provided that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes issued remain outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption (excluding Senior Subordinated Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries); and provided, further, that such redemption shall occur within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Public Equity Offering. (c) Any redemption pursuant to this Paragraph 5 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. 6. MANDATORY REDEMPTION. Except as set forth in Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes. 7. REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER (a) If there is a Change of Control, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "CHANGE OF CONTROL OFFER") to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Senior Subordinated Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date of purchase (the "CHANGE OF CONTROL PAYMENT"). Within 15 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. (b) If the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary consummates any Asset Sales and the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $20.0 million, the Company shall commence an offer to all Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes (a "SENIOR SUBORDINATED ASSET SALE OFFER") pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to purchase the maximum principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date fixed for the closing of such offer, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Senior Subordinated Notes tendered pursuant to a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company (or such Subsidiary) may use such deficiency for any purpose not prohibited by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall select the Senior Subordinated Notes to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase will receive a Senior Subordinated Asset Sale Offer from the Company prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Senior Subordinated Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Senior Subordinated Notes. 8. NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Senior Subordinated Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Senior Subordinated Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Senior Subordinated Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Senior Subordinated Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. 9. DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE. The Senior Subordinated Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Senior Subordinated Notes may be registered and Senior Subordinated Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The Registrar and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Subordinated Note or portion of a Senior Subordinated Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Senior Subordinated Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Senior Subordinated Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Senior Subordinated Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date. This Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note is exchangeable in whole or in part for one or more Global Senior Subordinated Notes only (i) on or after the termination of the 40-day restricted period (as defined in Regulation S) and (ii) upon presentation of certificates (accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel, if applicable) required by Article 2 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. Upon exchange of this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note for one or more Global Senior Subordinated Notes, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall cancel this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note. 10. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS. The registered Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes. 11. AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER. Subject to certain exceptions, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes voting as a single class, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Senior Subordinated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Senior Subordinated Notes, to provide for the assumption of the Company's or Guarantor's obligations to Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes in case of a merger or consolidation, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture of any such Holder, to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act or to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and/or a Senior Subsidiary Guarantee with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes. Without the consent of at least 75% in principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, such Senior Subordinated Notes), no waiver or amendment to this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture may make any change in the provisions of Article 10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture that adversely affects the rights of any Holder of Senior Subordinated Notes. 12. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES. An "EVENT OF DEFAULT" occurs if: (i) the Company defaults in the payment when due of interest on, or Liquidated Damages, if any, with respect to, the Senior Subordinated Notes and such default continues for a period of 30 days (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of Article 10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture); (ii) the Company defaults in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Senior Subordinated Notes when the same becomes due and payable at maturity, upon redemption (including in connection with an offer to purchase) or otherwise (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of Article 10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture); (iii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Sections 5.01; (iv) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply for 30 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee with any of the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture; (v) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to observe or perform any other covenant, representation, warranty or other agreement in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes for 60 days after notice to the Company by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee; (vi) a default occurs under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, which default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "PAYMENT DEFAULT") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $20.0 million or more; (vii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $20.0 million (excluding amounts covered by insurance), which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (viii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency occur with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law; or (ix) except as permitted by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, any Senior Subsidiary Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's Senior Subsidiary Guarantee. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may declare all the Senior Subordinated Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or the Senior Subordinated Notes except as provided in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Subordinated Notes may direct the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Subordinated Notes then outstanding by notice to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Senior Subordinated Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default. 13. SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. 14. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company or any of the Guarantors, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Senior Subordinated Notes, the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees or the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Senior Subordinated Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes. 15. AUTHENTICATION. This Senior Subordinated Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or an authenticating agent. 16. ABBREVIATIONS. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act). 17. ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES AND RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes and Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes shall have all the rights set forth in the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998, between the Company and the parties named on the signature pages thereof (the "SUBORDINATED REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT"). 18. CUSIP NUMBERS. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Senior Subordinated Notes and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Senior Subordinated Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and/or the Subordinated Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to: Ball Corporation Colorado Office Center 9300 West 108th Circle Broomfield, CO 80021-3682 Attention: Chief Financial Officer
ASSIGNMENT FORM To assign this Senior Subordinated Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Senior Subordinated Note to ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. no.) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint_______________________________________________________________ to transfer this Senior Subordinated Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Date: Your Signature:______________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Subordinated Note) Tax Identification No:_____________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:______________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase If you want to elect to have this Senior Subordinated Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, check the box below: [ ] Section 4.10 [ ] Section 4.15 If you want to elect to have only part of the Senior Subordinated Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.15 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $_____________ Date: Your Signature:__________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Senior Subordinated Note) Tax Identification No:_____________________________ SIGNATURE GUARANTEE:______________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS IN THE REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE The following exchanges of a part of this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note for an interest in another Global Senior Subordinated Note, or of other Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note for an interest in this Regulation S Temporary Global Senior Subordinated Note, have been made:
EXHIBIT B FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER Ball Corporation Colorado Office Center 9300 West 108th Circle Broomfield, CO 80021-3682 The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 (CUSIP ) ---------------------------------------------------------- Reference is hereby made to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, dated as of August __, 1998 (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE"), between Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "COMPANY"), and The Bank of New York, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. ____________________, (the "TRANSFEROR") owns and proposes to transfer the Senior Subordinated Note[s] or interest in such Senior Subordinated Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $_____________ in such Senior Subordinated Note[s] or interests (the "TRANSFER"), to _________________ (the "TRANSFEREE"), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that: [CHECK ALL THAT APPLY] 1. [ ] ChECK IF TRANSFEREE WILL TAKE DELIVERY OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN THE 144A GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE OR A DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Senior Subordinated Note and/or the Definitive Senior Subordinated Note and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Securities Act. 2. [ ] CHECK IF TRANSFEREE WILL TAKE DELIVERY OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN THE TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE, THE REGULATION S GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE OR A DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE PURSUANT TO REGULATION S. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act and, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note, the Temporary Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note and/or the Definitive Senior Subordinated Note and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Securities Act. 3. [ ] CHECK AND COMPLETE IF TRANSFEREE WILL TAKE DELIVERY OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN THE IAI GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE OR A DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE PURSUANT TO ANY PROVISION OF THE SECURITIES ACT OTHER THAN RULE 144A OR REGULATION S. The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes and Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one): (a) [ ] such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or (b) [ ] such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or (c) [ ] such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or (d) [ ] such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note or Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and (2) if such Transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the IAI Global Senior Subordinated Note and/or the Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Securities Act. 4. [ ] CHECK IF TRANSFEREE WILL TAKE DELIVERY OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN AN UNRESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE OR OF AN UNRESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE. (a) [ ] CHECK IF TRANSFER IS PURSUANT TO RULE 144. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes, on Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. (b) [ ] CHECK IF TRANSFER IS PURSUANT TO REGULATION S. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes, on Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. (c) [ ] CHECK IF TRANSFER IS PURSUANT TO OTHER EXEMPTION. (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Senior Subordinated Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes or Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company. ------------------------------ [Insert Name of Transferor] By:______________________________ Name: Title: Dated:_________________, ____
ANNEX A TO CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER 1. The Transferor owns and proposes to transfer the following: [CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)] (a) [ ] a beneficial interest in the: (i) [ ] 144A Global Senior Subordinated Note (CUSIP ), or (ii) [ ] Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note (CUSIP ), or (iii) [ ] IAI Global Senior Subordinated Note (CUSIP ); or (b) [ ] a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note. 2. After the Transfer the Transferee will hold: [CHECK ONE] (a) [ ] beneficial interest in the: (i) [ ] 144A Global Senior Subordinated Note (CUSIP ), or (ii) [ ] Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note (CUSIP ), or (iii) [ ] IAI Global Senior Subordinated Note (CUSIP ); or (iv) [ ] Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note (CUSIP ); or (b) [ ] a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note; or (c) [ ] an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture.
EXHIBIT C FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF EXCHANGE Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 (CUSIP __________) Reference is hereby made to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998 (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE"), between Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "COMPANY"), and The Bank of New York, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. _________________________, (the "OWNER") owns and proposes to exchange the Senior Subordinated Note[s] or interest in such Senior Subordinated Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $_______________ in such Senior Subordinated Note[s] or interests (the "EXCHANGE"). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that: 1. EXCHANGE OF RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES OR BENEFICIAL INTERESTS IN A RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE FOR UNRESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES OR BENEFICIAL INTERESTS IN AN UNRESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE (a) [ ] CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN A RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TO BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN AN UNRESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Senior Subordinated Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "SECURITIES ACT"), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (b) [ ] CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN A RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TO UNRESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (c) [ ] CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TO BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN AN UNRESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Senior Subordinated Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. (d) [ ] CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TO UNRESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. 2. EXCHANGE OF RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES OR BENEFICIAL INTERESTS IN RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES FOR RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES OR BENEFICIAL INTERESTS IN RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES (a) [ ] CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN A RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TO RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note for a Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Securities Act. (b) [ ] CHECK IF EXCHANGE IS FROM RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TO BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN A RESTRICTED GLOBAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Senior Subordinated Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] 144A [ ] Global Senior Subordinated Note, [ ] Regulation S Global Senior Subordinated Note, [ ] IAI Global Senior Subordinated Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Senior Subordinated Note and in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Securities Act. This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company. ------------------------------ [Insert Name of Owner] By:_______________________ Name: Title: Dated:______________, ____
EXHIBIT D FORM OF CERTIFICATE FROM ACQUIRING INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Attention: Treasurer The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, Floor 21 West New York, NY 10286 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Re: 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 (CUSIP __________) Reference is hereby made to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, dated as of August 10, 1998 (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE"), between Ball Corporation, as issuer (the "COMPANY"), and The Bank of New York, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. In connection with our proposed purchase of $____________ aggregate principal amount of: (a) [ ] a beneficial interest in a Global Senior Subordinated Note, or (b) [ ] a Definitive Senior Subordinated Note, we confirm that: 1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Senior Subordinated Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Senior Subordinated Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "SECURITIES ACT"). 2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Senior Subordinated Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Senior Subordinated Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Senior Subordinated Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (c) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and, if such transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes, at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Senior Subordinated Note or beneficial interest in a Global Senior Subordinated Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein. 3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Senior Subordinated Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Senior Subordinated Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect. We further understand that any subsequent transfer by us of the Senior Subordinated Notes or beneficial interest therein acquired by us must be effected through one of the Placement Agents. 4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Senior Subordinated Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment. 5. We are acquiring the Senior Subordinated Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion. You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. ----------------------------------------- [Insert Name of Accredited Investor] By: _______________________ Name: Title: Dated:_______________, ___
EXHIBIT E FORM OF NOTATION OF SUBORDINATED SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998 (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE") among Ball Corporation, the Guarantors listed on Schedule I thereto and The Bank of New York, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE"), (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes (as defined in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal and premium, and, to the extent permitted by law, interest, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Senior Subordinated Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Senior Subordinated Notes and to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee pursuant to the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee and the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 11 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture for the precise terms of the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee. Each Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, on behalf of such Holder, to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and (c) appoints the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for such purpose; provided, however, that the Indebtedness evidenced by this Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee shall cease to be so subordinated and subject in right of payment upon any defeasance of this Senior Subordinated Note in accordance with the provisions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. [Name of Guarantor(s)] By: ____________________________ Name: Title:
EXHIBIT F FORM OF SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE TO BE DELIVERED BY SUBSEQUENT GUARANTORS SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE (this "SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE"), dated as of ________________, among __________________ (the "GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY"), a subsidiary of Ball Corporation (or its permitted successor), an Indiana corporation (the "COMPANY"), the Company, the other Guarantors (as defined in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture referred to herein) and The Bank of New York, as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture referred to below (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a Senior Subordinated Note Indenture (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE"), dated as of August 10, 1998 providing for the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of up to $250.0 million of 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 (the "SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES"); WHEREAS, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee a supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's Obligations under the Senior Subordinated Notes and the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "SUBORDINATED SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE"); and WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes as follows: 1. CAPITALIZED TERMS. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. 2. AGREEMENT TO GUARANTEE. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows: (a) Along with all Guarantors named in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Senior Subordinated Note authenticated and delivered by the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Subordinated Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (i) the principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Senior Subordinated Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. (b) The obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Senior Subordinated Notes or the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Senior Subordinated Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. (c) The following is hereby waived: diligence presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever. (d) This Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Senior Subordinated Notes and the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. (e) If any Holder or the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee or such Holder, this Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. (f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. (g) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture for the purposes of this Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee. (h) The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee. (i) Pursuant to Section 11.04 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and any other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 11 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture shall result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. 3. EXECUTION AND DELIVERY. Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Senior Subordinated Note a notation of such Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee. 4. GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY MAY CONSOLIDATE, ETC. ON CERTAIN TERMS. (a) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another corporation, Person or entity whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor unless: (i) subject to Section 11.04 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than a Guarantor or the Company) unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, under the Senior Subordinated Notes, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; and (ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists. (b) In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor corporation, by supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, executed and delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee, of the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee endorsed upon the Senior Subordinated Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor corporation shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor corporation thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Senior Subordinated Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee. All the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as the Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as though all of such Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. (c) Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or in any of the Senior Subordinated Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor. 5. RELEASES. (a) In the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all to the capital stock of any Guarantor, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. Upon delivery by the Company to the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, the Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee. (b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Senior Subordinated Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as provided in Article 11 of the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. 6. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Senior Subordinated Notes, any Subordinated Subsidiary Guarantees, the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or this Supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Senior Subordinated Notes by accepting a Senior Subordinated Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the SEC that such a waiver is against public policy. 7. NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN. THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 8. COUNTERPARTS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. 9. EFFECT OF HEADINGS. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 10. THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE TRUSTEE. The Senior Subordinated Note Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Senior Subordinated Note Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written. Dated:______________, ___ [GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY] By: ________________________ Name: Title: BALL CORPORATION By: _________________________ Name: Title: [EXISTING GUARANTORS] By:__________________________ Name: Title: THE BANK OF NEW YORK as Senior Subordinated Note Trustee By:___________________________ Name: Title:
SCHEDULE I SCHEDULE OF GUARANTORS The following schedule lists each Guarantor under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture as of the date of this Senior Subordinated Note Indenture: 1. Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation 2. Ball Asia Services Limited, a Delaware corporation (and a successor to Ball Asia Pacific Limited, a Colorado corporation) 3. Ball Glass Container Corporation, a Delaware corporation 4. Ball Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation 5. Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 6. Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation 7. Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation 8. Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation 9. Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation 10. Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation 11. Ball Technology Services Corporation, a California corporation 12. BG Holdings I, Inc., a Delaware corporation 13. BG Holdings II, Inc., a Delaware corporation 14. Efratom Holding, Inc., a Colorado corporation 15. Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly known as Latas de Aluminio Reynolds, Inc.) 16. Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation

Exhibit 10.1 EXECUTION VERSION ----------------------- $800,000,000 (euro)414,000,000 (pound)79,000,000 CREDIT AGREEMENT among BALL CORPORATION, CERTAIN SUBSIDIARIES OF BALL CORPORATION, DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, as Administrative Agent and VARIOUS LENDING INSTITUTIONS Dated as of December 19, 2002 ----------------------- Arranged by DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. AND BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC as Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers and Joint Book Managers with BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. as Syndication Agent and BANK ONE, NA, LEHMAN COMMERCIAL PAPER INC. AND BNP PARIBAS as Co-Documentation Agents
INDEX OF EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES Exhibits Exhibit 2.1(c) Form of Swing Line Loan Participation Certificate Exhibit 2.2(a)(1) Form of Term A Note Exhibit 2.2(a)(2) Form of Term B Dollar Note Exhibit 2.2(a)(3) Form of Term B Euro Note Exhibit 2.2(a)(4) Form of Multicurrency Revolving Note Exhibit 2.2(a)(5) Form of U.S. Swing Line Note Exhibit 2.2(a)(6) Form of European Swing Line Note Exhibit 2.5 Form of Notice of Borrowing xhibit 2.6 Form of Notice of Conversion or Continuation Exhibit 2.10(c) Form of Letter of Credit Request Exhibit 2A.2(a) Form of Canadian Revolving Note Exhibit 2A.5 Form of Notice of Canadian Borrowing Exhibit 2A.6 Form of Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation Exhibit 4.7(d) Form of Section 4.7(d) Certificate Exhibit 5.1(b)(i) Form of United States Loan Guaranty Exhibit 5.1(b)(ii) Form of United States Pledge Agreement Exhibit 5.1(b)(iii) Form of Canadian Loan Guaranty Exhibit 5.1(b)(iv) Form of Canadian Pledge Agreement Exhibit 5.1(c)(i) Form of European Loan Guaranty Exhibit 5.1(c)(ii) Form of European Pledge Agreement Exhibit 5.1(d) Form of Opinion of Borrowers' Counsel Exhibit 5.1(e) Form of Officer's Certificate Exhibit 5.1(f) Form of Secretary's Certificate Exhibit 5.1(y) Form of Post-Closing Agreement Exhibit 7.2(a) Form of Compliance Certificate Pursuant to Section 7.2(a) Exhibit 12.1(b) Form of Joinder Agreement Exhibit 12.8(c) Form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement Schedules Schedule 1.1(a) Commitments Schedule 1.1(b) Multicurrency Revolver Sublimits Schedule 1.1(c) Consolidated EBITDA Schedule 1.1(d) Subsidiary Borrowers Schedule 2.10(j) Letters of Credit Outstanding Schedule 5.1(c) European Guaranties and Security Documents Schedule 5.1(r) Transaction Waivers Schedule 6.3 Approvals and Consents Schedule 6.4 Governmental Approval Schedule 6.5(a) Pro Forma Balance Sheet Schedule 6.5(d) Indebtedness Schedule 6.5(e) Projections Schedule 6.11 Pledge Agreement Filings Schedule 6.15 Organization of Subsidiaries Schedule 6.22 Foreign Pension Plans Schedule 8.1 Liens Schedule 8.7 Existing Investments Schedule 8.14(a) Existing Restrictions on Subsidiaries Schedule 12.3 Notice Addresses
CREDIT AGREEMENT THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT is dated as of December 19, 2002 and is made by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation ("Company"), Ball European Holdings, Sarl, a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg ("European Holdco"), Ball Packaging Products Canada Corp., a company organized under the laws of the Province of Nova Scotia ("Canadian Borrower"), each Subsidiary Borrower (as defined herein), the undersigned financial institutions, including Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, in their capacities as lenders hereunder (collectively, the "Lenders," and each individually, a "Lender"), The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian administrative agent ("Canadian Administrative Agent") and Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, as administrative agent ("Administrative Agent") for the Lenders. W I T N E S S E T H: - - - - - - - - - - WHEREAS, Borrowers have requested that the Lenders (i) make term loans to Company in the aggregate principal amount of $350 million maturing on December 19, 2009; (ii) make term loans to European Holdco in the aggregate Dollar Equivalent principal amount of $250 million denominated in Euros and Sterling maturing on December 19, 2007; (iii) make term loans to European Holdco in the aggregate Dollar Equivalent amount of $300 million denominated in Euros maturing on December 19, 2009; (iv) provide a multicurrency revolving credit facility maturing on December 19, 2007 (including a letter of credit subfacility), to Company, European Holdco and Subsidiary Borrowers in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $415 million and (v) provide a revolving credit facility to Canadian Borrower in an aggregate amount not to exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $35 million at any time outstanding denominated in Canadian Dollars and maturing on December 19, 2007; WHEREAS, the proceeds of the term loans described above will be used by Company and European Holdco and certain of the proceeds of the revolving loans described above will be used by Company to consummate the Schmalbach Acquisition and to repay certain outstanding indebtedness of Borrowers; WHEREAS, the proceeds of the revolving credit facility described above will be used by Borrowers for ongoing working capital and general corporate purposes; and WHEREAS, the Lenders are willing to extend commitments to make the term loans and revolving credit loans to Borrowers for the purposes specified above and only on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained and, among other things, the assignment of and the grant of a security interest in the Pledged Securities by Company and certain of its Subsidiaries in favor of Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant to the Pledge Agreements, the parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS 1.1 Definitions. As used herein, and unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms have the meanings indicated: "Acceptance Fee" means a fee payable in Canadian Dollars by Canadian Borrower to Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of a Canadian Revolving Lender with respect to the acceptance of a B/A or the making of a B/A Equivalent Loan on the date of such acceptance or loan, equal to the Applicable B/A Margin of the face amount of such B/A or B/A Equivalent Loan calculated on the basis of the number of days in the applicable Contract Period (including the date of acceptance and excluding the date of maturity) and a year of 365 days (it being agreed that the rate per annum applicable to the B/A Equivalent Loan is equivalent to the rate per annum otherwise applicable to the Bankers' Acceptance which has been replaced by the making of such B/A Equivalent Loan pursuant to Section 2A.9). "Acquisition" means (i) the purchase by a Person of a business or business unit conducted by another Person (whether through the acquisition of Capital Stock or assets) or (ii) the merger, consolidation or amalgamation of any Person with any other Person. "Acquisition Agreement" means that certain Share Sale and Transfer Agreement between Schmalbach and AV Packaging GmbH and Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc. and Company dated August 29, 2002, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with the terms hereof. "Acquisition Documents" means the Acquisition Agreement and all other related agreements and documents in connection with the Schmalbach Acquisition. "Additional Security Documents" means all guarantees and pledge agreements and other related documents entered into pursuant to Section 7.12 with respect to additional Collateral. "Additional Term Loans" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.9(a). "Adjusted Working Capital" means the difference between (i) the amount, without duplication, that is classified on a consolidated balance sheet of Company and its Subsidiaries as the consolidated current assets of Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP excluding Cash and Cash Equivalents and (ii) the amount, without duplication, that is classified on a consolidated balance sheet of Company and its Subsidiaries as the consolidated current liabilities of Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP excluding all short-term borrowings, the current portion of long-term indebtedness, the current portion of deferred taxes and the current portion of Capitalized Lease Obligations. "Administrative Agent" has the meaning assigned to that term in the introduction to this Agreement and any successor Administrative Agent in such capacity, provided that, unless the context otherwise requires, when used in respect of payments and notices pertaining to Canadian Revolving Loans, the term "Administrative Agent" shall mean Canadian Administrative Agent. "Aerospace Asset Disposition" means (i) an Asset Disposition by Company or any of its Subsidiaries of all or a portion of (a) the Aerospace Business (whether or not such disposition is to any Permitted Aerospace JV), (b) the Capital Stock of a Person holding only the Aerospace Business or (c) the Capital Stock of any Permitted Aerospace JV or (ii) the receipt by Company or any of its Subsidiaries of a liquidating dividend in respect of an interest in the Capital Stock of any Permitted Aerospace JV. "Aerospace Business" means the assets constituting the business of Ball Aerospace and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof and business reasonably related or incidental to such business, but excluding all Cash and Cash Equivalents held by Ball Aerospace and its Subsidiaries other than Cash and Cash Equivalents held in the ordinary course of business and in an amount consistent with past practices. "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any Person or group acting in concert in respect of the Person in question that, directly or indirectly, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with such Person, provided that, neither DB nor any Affiliate of DB shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of Borrower. For the purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person or group of Persons, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise. A Person shall be deemed to control a corporation if such Person is the "beneficial owner" as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, of 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such corporation. "Agent" or "Agents" means Administrative Agent and/or Canadian Administrative Agent, as the context may require. "Agreement" means this Credit Agreement, as the same may at any time be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with the terms hereof and in effect. "Alternative Currency" means at any time, Euros or Sterling. "Alternative Currency Loan" means any Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars. "Applicable B/A Margin" means at any date, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under column Applicable B/A Margin opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio as of such date: - ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ Applicable B/A Most Recent Leverage Ratio Margin - ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ Less than 2.0 to 1 1.25% - ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ Equal to or greater than 2.0 to 1 but less than 2.5 to 1 1.50% - ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ Equal to or greater than 2.5 to 1 but less than 3.0 to 1 1.75% - ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ Equal to or greater than 3.0 to 1 2.00% - ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ "Applicable Base Rate Margin" means at any date, (i) with respect to Multicurrency Revolving Loans, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under the column Applicable Base Rate Margin for Multicurrency Revolving Loans opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio as of such date and (ii) with respect to Term B Dollar Loans, the applicable percentage set forth under the column Applicable Base Rate Margin for Term B Dollar Loans opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio as of such date: ;provided, that the Applicable Base Rate Margin for Term B Dollar Loans shall equal 1.75% at any time the Most Recent Leverage Ratio is equal to or greater than 3.5 to 1. "Applicable Canadian Prime Rate Margin" means at any date, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under the column Applicable Canadian Prime Rate Margin opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio as of such date: "Applicable Commitment Fee Percentage" means at any date, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio as of such date: "Applicable Currency" means as to any particular payment or Loan, Dollars or the Alternative Currency in which it is denominated or is payable. "Applicable Eurocurrency Margin" means at any date, (i) with respect to Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Term A Loans, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under the column Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Term A Loans opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio on such date, (ii) with respect to Term B Dollar Loans, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under the column Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Term B Dollar Loans opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio on such date and (iii) with respect to Term B Euro Loans, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under the column Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Term B Euro Loans opposite the Most Recent Leverage Ratio on such date: ;provided, that the Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Term B Dollar Loans shall equal 2.50% at any time the Most Recent Leverage Ratio is equal to or greater than 3.5 to 1. "Asset Disposition" means any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition (or series of related sales, leases, transfers or dispositions) of all or any part of (i) an interest in shares of Capital Stock of a Subsidiary of Company (other than directors' qualifying shares) or (ii) property or other assets (each of (i) and (ii) referred to for the purposes of this definition as a "disposition") by Company or any of its Subsidiaries. "Assignee" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.8(c). "Assignment and Assumption Agreement" means an Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit 12.8(c) annexed hereto and made a part hereof made by any applicable Lender, as assignor, and such Lender's assignee in accordance with Section 12.8. "Attorney Costs" means all reasonable fees and disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel and the reasonable allocated cost of internal legal services, including all reasonable disbursements of internal counsel. "Attributable Debt" means as of the date of determination thereof, without duplication, (i) in connection with a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, the net present value (discounted according to GAAP at the cost of debt implied in the lease) of the obligations of the lessee for rental payments during the then remaining term of any applicable lease, (ii) Receivables Facility Attributable Debt and (iii) the principal balance outstanding under any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product to which such Person is a party, where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP. "Available Canadian Revolving Commitment" means, as to any Canadian Revolving Lender at any time, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) such Lender's Canadian Revolving Commitment over (b) the Effective Amount of then outstanding Canadian Revolving Loans made by such Lender. "Available Liquidity" means, at any date, the sum of (i) the Total Available Canadian Revolving Commitment on such date plus (ii) the Total Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment on such date plus (iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents as of the most recent reporting date for such balances. "Available Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit" means, as to European Holdco or any Subsidiary Borrower at any time an amount equal to (i) such Borrower's Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit at such time minus (ii) the sum of (a) the aggregate Effective Amount of then outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans made to such Borrower plus (b) the Effective Amount of such Borrower's LC Obligations plus (c) the aggregate Effective Amount of then outstanding Swing Line Loans made to such Borrower. "Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment" means, as to any Multicurrency Revolving Lender at any time an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) such Lender's Multicurrency Revolving Commitment over (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate Effective Amount of then outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans made by such Lender and (ii) such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Effective Amount of LC Obligations and Swing Line Loans then outstanding. "B/A Equivalent Loan" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2A.9(h). "B/A Loan" means a Borrowing comprised of one or more Bankers' Acceptances or, as applicable, B/A Equivalent Loans. For greater certainty, all provisions of this Agreement which are applicable to Bankers' Acceptances are also applicable, mutatis mutandis, to B/A Equivalent Loans. "Ball Aerospace" means Ball Aerospace and Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation. "Ball Capital Corp" means Ball Capital Corp., a Delaware corporation, together with its successors and assigns. "Ball Corporate Group" means Company, each of its Subsidiaries and the members of the BAP Group. "Ball Holdings" means Ball Holdings, Sarl, a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg. "Ball Metal Food Container Corp." means Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation, together with its successors and assigns. "Ball Plastic Container Corp." means Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, together with its successors and assigns. "Bankers' Acceptance" and "B/A" mean a depository note within the meaning of the Depository Bills and Notes Act (Canada) or a bill of exchange within the meaning of the Bills of Exchange Act (Canada), in each case, denominated in Canadian Dollars, drawn by Canadian Borrower, and accepted by a Canadian Revolving Lender in accordance with this Agreement. "BAP" means Ball Asia Pacific Holdings Limited, a Hong Kong corporation, and its successors and assigns. "BAP Group" means BAP and each of its direct and indirect subsidiaries and joint ventures (the "BAP Subs") and, upon a restructuring of the BAP Group occurring after the Initial Borrowing Date, means BAP, the BAP Subs and each direct or indirect holding company of BAP and/or the BAP Subs that was not a Credit Party prior to such restructuring and does not engage in any business other than holding shares of BAP or BAP Subs, as the case may be, and matters incidental thereto. "Base Rate" means the greater of (i) the rate most recently announced by DB at its principal office as its "prime rate", which is not necessarily the lowest rate made available by DB or (ii) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% per annum. The "prime rate" announced by DB is evidenced by the recording thereof after its announcement in such internal publication or publications as DB may designate. Any change in the interest rate resulting from a change in such "prime rate" announced by DB shall become effective without prior notice to Borrowers as of 12:01 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day on which each change in such "prime rate" is announced by DB. DB may make commercial or other loans to others at rates of interest at, above or below its "prime rate". "Base Rate Loan" means any Loan which bears interest at a rate determined with reference to the Base Rate. "Benefited Lender" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.6(a). "BMBCC" means Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, together with its successors and assigns, including a debtor-in-possession on behalf of BMBCC. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. "Borrowers" means Company, European Holdco, Canadian Borrower and Subsidiary Borrowers. "Borrowing" means a group of Loans of a single Type made by the Lenders or the European Swing Line Lender or U.S. Swing Line Lender, as appropriate on a single date (or resulting from a conversion on such date) and in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect, provided that, Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Loans incurred pursuant to Section 3.7 shall be considered part of any related Borrowing of Eurocurrency Loans. "Business Day" means (i) as it relates to any payment, determination, funding or notice to be made or given in connection with any Dollar-denominated Loan, or otherwise to be made or given to or from Administrative Agent, a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to close; provided, however, that when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market; provided, further, that when used in connection with any Letter of Credit, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which commercial banks in the city in which the respective Facing Agent for such Letter of Credit is domiciled are required by law to close; (ii) as it relates to any payment, determination, funding or notice to be made or given in connection with any Alternative Currency Loan, any day (A) on which dealings in deposits in the Alternative Currency are carried out in the London interbank market, (B) on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets are open for business in London, New York City, and the principal financial center for such Alternative Currency, and (C) with respect to any such payment, determination or funding to be made in connection with any Alternative Currency Loan denominated in Euros, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System or any successor settlement system is open; provided, however that when used in connection with a Borrowing by Canadian Borrower, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for business in Toronto or Montreal. "CAM" means the mechanism for the allocation and exchange of interests in the Facilities and collections thereunder established under Article XIII. "CAM Exchange" means the exchange of the Lenders' interests provided for in Section 13.1. "CAM Exchange Date" means the first date after the Initial Borrowing Date on which there shall occur any event described in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 10.1 with respect to Company or European Holdco. "CAM Percentage" means, as to each Lender, a fraction, expressed as a decimal to 12 decimal places, of which (a) the numerator shall be the sum of (i) the aggregate Designated Obligations owed to such Lender and (ii) such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the aggregate outstanding LC Obligations, if any, of such Lender, in each case immediately prior to the CAM Exchange Date, and (b) the denominator shall be the sum of (i) the aggregate Designated Obligations owed to all the Lenders and (ii) the aggregate outstanding LC Obligations, in each case immediately prior to such CAM Exchange Date. For purposes of computing each Lender's CAM Percentage, all Designated Obligations which shall be denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be translated into U.S. Dollars at the Exchange Rate in effect on the CAM Exchange Date. "Canadian Administrative Agent" has the meaning assigned to that term in the introduction to this Agreement and any successor Canadian Administrative Agent in such capacity. "Canadian Borrower" has the meaning assigned to that term in the introduction to this Agreement. "Canadian Commitment Fee" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3.2(c). "Canadian Commitment Period" means, the period from and including the date hereof to but not including the Canadian Revolver Termination Date. "Canadian Dollars" and "Cdn.$" shall mean lawful currency of Canada. "Canadian Holdings" means Ball North America, Inc., a company organized under the laws of the Province of Nova Scotia. "Canadian Loan Guaranty" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 5.1(b)(iii). "Canadian Notice Address" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2A.5. "Canadian Payment Office" means the office of Canadian Administrative Agent located at 222 Bay Street, Suite 1100, P.O. Box 64, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5K 1E7 or such other office as Canadian Administrative Agent may designate to Borrowers and the Lenders from time to time. "Canadian Pledge Agreement" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 5.1(b)(iv) "Canadian Prime Rate" means, for each day in any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times for such day be equal to the higher of (a) the annual rate of interest announced publicly by Canadian Administrative Agent and in effect as its prime rate at its principal office in Toronto, Ontario on such day for determining interest rates on Canadian Dollar-denominated commercial loans made in Canada and (b) 0.75% per annum above the average of the rates per annum for Canadian Dollar bankers' acceptances having a term of 30 days that appears on the display referred to as the "CDOR Page" (or any display substituted therefor) of Reuter Monitor Money Rates Service as of 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on the date of determination, as reported by Canadian Administrative Agent (and if such screen is not available, any successor or similar service as may be selected by Canadian Administrative Agent). "Canadian Prime Rate Loan" means any Loan which bears interest at a rate determined with reference to the Canadian Prime Rate. "Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share" means, when used with reference to any Canadian Revolving Lender and any described aggregate or total amount, an amount equal to the result obtained by multiplying such described aggregate or total amount by a fraction the numerator of which shall be such Lender's Canadian Revolving Commitment and the denominator of which shall be the Canadian Revolving Commitments or, if the Canadian Revolver Termination Date has occurred, such Lender's aggregate outstanding principal amount of Canadian Revolving Loans. "Canadian Revolver Termination Date" means the earliest to occur of (i) December 19, 2007 or (ii) such earlier date as the Canadian Revolving Commitments shall have been terminated or otherwise reduced to $0 pursuant to this Agreement. "Canadian Revolving Commitment" means, with respect to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Canadian Revolving Loans, as such commitment may be reduced from time to time pursuant to this Agreement, which commitment as of the date hereof is the amount set forth opposite such lender's name on Schedule 1.1(a) hereto under the caption "Amount of Canadian Revolving Commitment" as the same may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof and "Canadian Revolving Commitments" means such commitments collectively, which commitments equal $35,000,000 as of the date hereof. "Canadian Revolving Facility" means the credit facility under this Agreement evidenced by the Canadian Revolving Commitments and the Canadian Revolving Loans. "Canadian Revolving Lender" means any Lender which has a Canadian Revolving Commitment, which prior to any CAM Exchange shall be resident in Canada for purposes of the ITA, or deemed to be resident in Canada for purposes of Part XIII of the ITA in respect of any amounts paid or credited to such Lender under the Canadian Revolving Facility. "Canadian Revolving Loan" and "Canadian Revolving Loans" as defined in Section 2A.1, including by way of Bankers' Acceptances and B/A Equivalent Loans, pursuant to Section 2A.1 or Section 2A.9. "Canadian Revolving Note" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2A.2. "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all common shares, preferred shares, interests, participations, rights in or other equivalents (however designated) of such Person's capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or other equivalent interests and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock), warrants or options exchangeable for or convertible into such capital stock or other equity interests. "Capitalized Lease" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, any lease of property, real or personal, in respect of which the present value of the minimum rental commitment is capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee in accordance with GAAP. "Capitalized Lease Obligation" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a Capitalized Lease which would at such time be so required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee in accordance with GAAP. "Cash" means money, currency or the available credit balance in Dollars, Canadian Dollars, an Alternative Currency or another currency that, in the opinion of Administrative Agent, is at such time freely transferable and freely convertible into Dollars in a Deposit Account. "Cash Equivalents" means (i) any evidence of indebtedness, maturing not more than 180 days after the date of issue, issued by the United States of America or any instrumentality or agency thereof, the principal, interest and premium, if any, of which is guaranteed fully by, or backed by the full faith and credit of, the United States of America, (ii) Dollar, Canadian Dollar or Alternative Currency denominated (or other foreign currency fully hedged) time deposits, certificates of deposit and bankers acceptances maturing not more than 180 days after the date of purchase, issued by (x) any Lender or (y) a commercial banking institution having, or which is the principal banking subsidiary of a bank holding company having, combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $200,000,000 and a commercial paper rating of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's, "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P or the equivalent rating by any other nationally recognized rating agency in the United States (any such bank, an "Approved Bank"), or (z) a non-United States commercial banking institution which is either currently ranked among the 100 largest banks in the world (by assets, according to the American Banker), has combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000 or whose commercial paper (or the commercial paper of such bank's holding company) has a rating of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's, "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P or the equivalent rating by any other nationally recognized rating agency, (iii) commercial paper, maturing not more than 180 days after the date of purchase, issued or guaranteed by a corporation (other than Company or any Subsidiary of Company or any of their respective Affiliates) organized and existing under the laws of any state within the United States of America with a rating, at the time as of which any determination thereof is to be made, of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's, or "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P, (iv) demand deposits with any bank or trust company maintained in the ordinary course of business, (v) repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements covering obligations of the type specified in clause (i) with a term of not more than seven days with any Approved Bank and (vi) shares of any money market mutual fund rated at least AAA or the equivalent thereof by S&P or at least Aaa or the equivalent thereof by Moody's, including, without limitation, any such mutual fund managed or advised by any Lender or Administrative Agent. "CDOR Rate" means, on any day, the per annum rate of interest which is the rate determined as being the arithmetic average of the rates applicable to Canadian Dollar bankers' acceptances having identical issue and comparable maturity dates as the Bankers' Acceptances proposed to be issued by Canadian Borrower displayed and identified as such on the display referred to as the "CDOR Page" (or any display substituted therefor) of Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service as at approximately 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on such day, or if such day is not a Business Day, then on the immediately preceding Business Day (as adjusted by Canadian Administrative Agent in good faith after 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) to reflect any error in a posted rate of interest or in the posted average annual rate of interest); provided, however, if such a rate does not appear on such CDOR Page, then the CDOR Rate, on any day, shall be the discount rate quoted by Canadian Administrative Agent (determined as of 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time)) on such day at which Canadian Administrative Agent would purchase its own bankers acceptances in a comparable face amount and with comparable maturity dates to the Bankers' Acceptances proposed to be issued by Canadian Borrower on such day, or if such day is not a Business Day, then on the immediately preceding Business Day. "Change of Control" means (i) the sale, lease or transfer of all or substantially all of Company's assets to any Person or group (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), (ii) the liquidation or dissolution of Company or European Holdco, (iii) any person or group of persons (within the meaning of the Exchange Act) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act) of 35% or more of the issued and outstanding shares of Company's Voting Securities; (iv) during any period of twelve consecutive calendar months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted Company's board of directors (together with any new directors whose election by Company's board of directors or whose nomination for election by Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason other than death or disability to constitute a majority of the directors then in office; or (v) any "Change of Control" (as such term is defined in the 2006 Senior Note Indenture, the 2008 Subordinated Note Indenture, the 2012 Senior Note Indenture or any other Permitted Debt Document related to any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness of the foregoing). "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as from time to time amended, including the regulations promulgated thereunder, or any successor statute and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Co-Documentation Agents" means Bank One, NA, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and BNP Paribas. "COLI Policy Advances" of Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall mean, with respect to any Company Owned Life Insurance Program, policy loans made to Company or any of its Subsidiaries under life insurance policies in an amount not in excess of the available cash surrender values of such policies, which loans are made pursuant to the contractual terms of life insurance policies issued in connection with a Company Owned Life Insurance Program. "Collateral" means all "Collateral" as defined in each of the Security Documents. "Collateral Account" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 4.4(a). "Collateral Agent" means DB acting as collateral agent for the Secured Creditors pursuant to its appointment as Collateral Agent in Section 11.1. "Commitment" means, with respect to each Lender, the aggregate of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitment, Canadian Revolving Commitment and Term Commitments of such Lender and "Commitments" means such commitments of all of the Lenders collectively. "Commitment Fee" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3.2(b). "Commitment Period" means, the period from and including the date hereof to but not including the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date or, in the case of the Swing Line Commitment, five (5) Business Days prior to the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date. "Common Stock" means the common stock of Company, no par value. "Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in the introduction to this Agreement. "Company Owned Life Insurance Program" means a life insurance program in which the Company is a participant, pursuant to which the Company is the owner of whole life policies insuring the lives of certain of its employees. "Company Refinancing" means the repayment in full of all material indebtedness for money borrowed of Company and its Subsidiaries (other than the Loans, the Letters of Credit, the 2012 Senior Notes and Indebtedness to Remain Outstanding). "Company Refinancing Documents" means collectively all agreements, instruments and documents executed in connection with the Company Refinancing, including, without limitation, any document or instrument necessary to release and terminate any and all security interests thereunder. "Compliance Certificate" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 7.2(a). "Computation Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.8(a). "Consolidated Assets" means, for any Person, the total assets of such Person and its Subsidiaries, as determined from a consolidated balance sheet of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Capital Expenditures" means, for Company and its Subsidiaries, for any period, the aggregate of all expenditures (whether paid in cash or accrued as liabilities and including in all events all Capitalized Lease Obligations but excluding any capitalized interest with respect thereto) by Company and its Subsidiaries during that period that, in conformity with GAAP, are or are required to be included in the property, plant or equipment reflected in the consolidated balance sheet of Company. "Consolidated Cash Interest Expense" means, for any period, (i) Consolidated Interest Expense, but excluding, however, interest expense not payable in cash, amortization of discount and deferred financing costs; plus or minus, as the case may be (ii) net amounts paid or received under Interest Rate Agreements (with cap payments amortized over the life of the cap); and minus (iii) interest income received in Cash or Cash Equivalents in respect of Investments permitted hereunder. "Consolidated Debt" means, at any time, (i) all Indebtedness of Company and its Subsidiaries (other than the BAP Group and any Permitted Aerospace JV) determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP and (ii) the aggregate outstanding amount, without duplication, of Attributable Debt of Company and its Subsidiaries (other than the BAP Group and any Permitted Aerospace JV) determined on a consolidated basis. "Consolidated EBITDA" means, for any period, on a consolidated basis for the Company and its Subsidiaries, the sum of the amounts for such period, without duplication, of: (i) Consolidated Net Income, plus (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense, to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income, plus (iii) charges against income for foreign, federal, state and local taxes in each case based on income, to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income, plus (iv) depreciation expense, to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income, plus (v) amortization expense, including, without limitation, amortization of good will and other intangible assets, fees, costs and expenses in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of any of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the Acquisition, and other fees, costs and expenses in connection with Permitted Acquisitions, in each case, to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income, minus (vi) the gain (or plus the loss) (net of any tax effect) resulting from the sale of any capital assets other than in the ordinary course of business to the extent added (deducted) in computing Consolidated Net Income, minus (vii) extraordinary or non-cash nonrecurring after-tax gains (or plus extraordinary or non-cash nonrecurring after-tax losses) to the extent added (deducted) in computing Consolidated Net Income, minus (viii) any gain resulting from any write-up of assets (other than with respect to any company owned life insurance program) to the extent added (deducted) in computing Consolidated Net Income, plus (ix) any non-cash charge resulting from any write-down of assets to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income; and plus (x) any non-cash restructuring charge to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income; in each case calculated for the applicable period in conformity with GAAP; provided, however, Consolidated EBITDA shall be decreased by the amount of any cash expenditures in such period related to non-cash charges added back to Consolidated EBITDA during any prior periods; provided, further, however, for purposes of computing the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, Interest Coverage Ratio, Leverage Ratio, Most Recent Leverage Ratio and Senior Secured Leverage Ratio for each Test Period ending on or before December 31, 2003, Consolidated EBITDA for the second, third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2002 shall be deemed to be as set forth on Schedule 1.1(c). "Consolidated Fixed Charges" means, for any period, for Company and its Subsidiaries, the sum of (without duplication) (i) Consolidated Cash Interest Expense, (ii) all scheduled payments of principal on Indebtedness of Company and its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, principal payments in respect of Capitalized Leases, but excluding payments of principal on the 2006 Senior Notes at maturity thereof to the extent such payments are permitted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, (iii) Dividends paid in Cash by Company and (iv) taxes paid in cash, as each of the foregoing is made during such period of determination in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis. "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, for any period, without duplication, the sum of the total interest expense (including that attributable to Capitalized Leases in accordance with GAAP) of Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of Company and its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financing, but excluding, however, any amortization of deferred financing costs, all as determined on a consolidated basis for Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP plus the interest component of any lease payment under Attributable Debt transactions paid by Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis plus any discount and/or interest component in respect of a sale of Receivables Facility Assets by Company and its Subsidiaries regardless of whether such discount or interest would constitute interest under GAAP. "Consolidated Net Income" and "Consolidated Net Loss" mean, respectively, with respect to any period, the aggregate of the net income (loss) of the Person in question for such period, determined in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis, provided that, there shall be excluded (i) the income of any unconsolidated Subsidiary and any Person in which any other Person (other than Company or any of the Subsidiaries or any director holding qualifying shares in compliance with applicable law or any other third party holding a de minimus number of shares in order to comply with other similar requirements) has a joint interest, except to the extent of the amount of dividends or other distributions actually paid to Company or any of its Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries by such Person during such period and (ii) the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles. "Consolidated Secured Debt" means, at any time, without duplication, the sum of (i) all Indebtedness of Company and its Subsidiaries secured by any Lien on any property owned by such Person determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP and (ii) the aggregate outstanding amount of Attributable Debt, in each case determined on a consolidated basis. "Consolidated Tangible Assets" means, for any Person, the total assets of such Person and its Subsidiaries, as determined from a consolidated balance sheet of such Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP, but excluding therefrom all items that are treated as goodwill and other intangible assets under GAAP. "Contaminant" means any material with respect to which any Environmental Law imposes a duty, obligation or standard of conduct, including without limitation any pollutant, contaminant (as those terms are defined in 42 U.S.C. ss. 9601(33)), toxic pollutant (as that term is defined in 33 U.S.C. ss. 1362(13)), hazardous substance (as that term is defined in 42 U.S.C. ss.9601(14)), hazardous chemical (as that term is defined by 29 CFR ss. 1910.1200(c)), hazardous waste (as that term is defined in 42 U.S.C. ss. 6903(5)), or any state, local or other equivalent of such laws and regulations, including, without limitation, radioactive material, special waste, polychlorinated biphenyls, asbestos, petroleum, including crude oil or any petroleum-derived substance, (or any fraction thereof), waste, or breakdown or decomposition product thereof, mold, bacteria or any constituent of any such substance or waste, including but not limited to polychlorinated biphenyls and asbestos. "Contract Period" means the term of a B/A Loan selected by Canadian Borrower in accordance with Section 2A.5 or Section 2A.6 commencing on the date of such B/A Loan and expiring on a Business Day which shall be either 30 days, 60 days, 90 days or 180 days (subject to availability) thereafter, provided that, no Contract Period shall extend beyond the Canadian Revolver Termination Date. "Contractual Obligation" means, as to any Person, any provision of any Securities issued by such Person or of any indenture or credit agreement or any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound or to which it may be subject. "Controlled Group" means the group consisting of (i) any corporation which is a member of the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code) as Company; (ii) a partnership or other trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which is under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code) with Company; (iii) a member of the same affiliated service group (within the meaning of Section 414(m) of the Code) as Company, any corporation described in clause (i) above or any partnership or trade or business described in clause (ii) above; or (iv) any other Person which is required to be aggregated with Company or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to regulations promulgated under Section 414(o) of the Code. "Controlled Subsidiary" of any Person means a Subsidiary of such Person (i) ninety percent (90%) or more of the Capital Stock of which (other than directors' qualifying shares) shall at the time be owned by such Person or by one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of such Person and (ii) of which such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. "Credit Event" means the making of any Loan or the issuance of any Letter of Credit. "Credit Exposure" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.8(b). "Credit Party" means Company, European Holdco, Canadian Borrower, Subsidiary Borrowers and any guarantor which may hereafter enter into a guarantee agreement or a pledge agreement with respect to all or any portion of the Obligations. "Customary Permitted Liens" means for any Person (i) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued, provided that, adequate provision for the payment of all such taxes, assessments or governmental charges known to such Person has been made on the books of such Person to the extent required by GAAP or, in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time in its jurisdiction of organization; (ii) mechanics', suppliers', processor's, materialmen's, carriers', warehousemen's, workmen's, landlord's and similar Liens arising by operation of law and arising or created in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations of such Person that are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued, provided that, adequate provision for the payment of such Liens known to such Person has been made on the books of such Person to the extent required by GAAP or, in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time in its jurisdiction of organization; (iii) Liens arising in connection with worker's compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions and social security benefits or other similar benefits which are not overdue or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued, provided that, adequate provision for the payment of such Liens known to such Person has been made on the books of such Person to the extent required by GAAP or, in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time in its jurisdiction of organization; (iv) (A) Liens incurred or deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure the performance of bids, tenders, statutory obligations, fee and expense arrangements with trustees and fiscal agents (exclusive of obligations incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the payment of the deferred purchase price of property) and customary deposits granted in the ordinary course of business under Operating Leases and (B) Liens securing surety, indemnity, performance, appeal, customs and release bonds, provided that, adequate provision for the payment of all such obligations has been made on the books of such Person to the extent required by GAAP or, in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time in its jurisdiction of organization; (v) Permitted Real Property Encumbrances; (vi) attachment, judgment, writs or warrants of attachment or other similar Liens arising in connection with court or arbitration proceedings which do not constitute an Event of Default under Section 10.1(i); (vii) licenses of patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights granted in the ordinary course of business; (viii) Liens in respect of an agreement to dispose of any asset, to the extent such disposal is permitted by Section 8.4; (ix) Liens arising due to any cash pooling, netting or composite accounting arrangements between any one or more of the Borrowers and any of their Subsidiaries or between any one or more of such entities and one or more banks or other financial institutions where any such entity maintains deposits. (x) leases or subleases granted to others not interfering in any material respect with the business of Company or any of its Subsidiaries and any interest or title of a lessor, licensor or subleasor under any lease or license permitted by this Agreement or the Security Documents; and (xi) customary rights of set off, revocation, refund or chargeback or similar rights under deposit disbursement, concentration account agreements or under the UCC (or comparable foreign law) or arising by operation of law of banks or other financial institutions where any Borrower maintains deposit, disbursement or concentration accounts in the ordinary course of business permitted by this Agreement. "DB" means Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, and its successors. "DBSI" means Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. "Default Rate" means a variable rate per annum which shall be two percent (2%) per annum plus either (i) the then applicable interest rate hereunder in respect of the amount on which the Default Rate is being assessed or (ii) if there is no such applicable interest rate, the Base Rate plus the Applicable Base Rate Margin, and with respect to the obligations denominated in Canadian Dollars, the Canadian Prime Rate plus the Applicable Canadian Prime Rate Margin, but in no event in excess of that permitted by applicable law. "Defaulting Lender" means any Lender with respect to which a Lender Default is in effect. "Deposit Account" means a demand, time, savings, passbook or like account with a bank, savings and loan association, credit union or like organization, other than an account evidenced by a negotiable certificate of deposit. "Designated Obligations" means all Obligations of the Credit Parties in respect of accrued and unpaid (a) principal of and interest on the Loans (including B/A's, B/A Equivalent Loans and Acceptance Fees with respect thereto), (b) LC Commissions and (c) Commitment Fees, whether or not the same shall at the time of any determination be due and payable under the terms of the Loan Documents. "Discount Proceeds" means in respect of any Bankers' Acceptance (or, as applicable, any B/A Equivalent Loan) required to be accepted and purchased by a Canadian Revolving Lender an amount (rounded to the nearest whole cent with one-half one cent being rounded-up) determined as of the applicable date of the Canadian Revolving Loan or rollover date for such Canadian Revolving Loan which is equal to: Face Amount x Price where "Face Amount" is the face amount of such Bankers' Acceptance (or, as applicable, the B/A Equivalent Loan) and "Price" is equal to: 1 ----------------- 1 + (Rate x Term) ----- 365 where the "Rate" is the Discount Rate expressed as a decimal on the date of the Canadian Revolving Loan or rollover date for such Canadian Revolving Loan, as the case may be; the "Term" is the Contract Period of such Bankers' Acceptance expressed as a number of days; and the Price as so determined is rounded up or down to the fifth decimal place with .000005 being rounded-up. "Discount Rate" means: (a) with respect to an issue of Bankers' Acceptances accepted and purchased by a Canadian Revolving Lender that is a Schedule I Bank, the CDOR Rate; and (b) with respect to an issue of Bankers' Acceptances accepted and purchased by a Canadian Revolving Lender that is not a Schedule I Bank, including without limitation, a Schedule II Bank and a Schedule III Bank, the CDOR Rate plus ten (10) basis points (0.10%). "Dividend" has the meaning assigned to that term on Section 8.5. "Documents" means the Loan Documents and the Transaction Documents. "Dollar" and "$" means lawful money of the United States of America. "Dollar Equivalent" means, at any time, (a) as to any amount denominated in Dollars, the amount thereof at such time, (b) as to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount in Dollars as determined by Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Exchange Rate for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency on the most recent Computation Date provided for in Section 2.8(a), and (c) as to any amount denominated in Canadian Dollars, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount determined by Administrative Agent using the Exchange Rate then in effect. "Domestic Receivables Parent Undertaking Agreement" means that certain Parent Undertaking Agreement, dated as of December 29, 1997, by Ball Corporation in favor of Old Line Funding Corp. and Royal Bank of Canada, as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "Domestic Receivables Purchase Agreement" means that certain Domestic Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 29, 1997, among Ball Capital Corp., as seller, Company, as servicer, Old Line Funding Corp., a Delaware corporation, as buyer, and Royal Bank of Canada, as agent, as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "Domestic Receivables Purchase Documents" means the Domestic Receivables Sale Agreement, the Domestic Receivables Parent Undertaking Agreement and the Domestic Receivables Purchase Agreement. "Domestic Receivables Sale Agreement" means that certain Originator Purchase Agreement dated as of December 29, 1997, between Ball Metal Food Container Corp., Ball Plastic Container Corp., and BMBCC and Ball Capital Corp., pursuant to which Ball Metal Food Container Corp., Ball Plastic Container Corp. and BMBCC shall sell to Ball Capital Corp. all of its "Receivables" and "Related Security" (as such terms are defined therein), as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "Domestic Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary other than a Foreign Subsidiary. "Drawing" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10(d)(ii). "Effective Amount" means (a) with respect to any Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal Dollar Equivalent amount thereof after giving effect to any Borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Loans occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to any outstanding LC Obligations on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of such LC Obligations on such date after giving effect to any issuances of Letters of Credit occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the LC Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements of outstanding unpaid drawings under any Letters of Credit or any reductions in the maximum amount available for drawing under Letters of Credit taking effect on such date. "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.20. "Eligible Assignee" means a commercial bank, financial institution, financial company, Fund or insurance company in each case, together with its Affiliates or Related Funds, which extends credit or buys loans in the ordinary course of its business or any other Person approved by Administrative Agent and Borrower, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld; provided, that, prior to any CAM Exchange, no Person shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee with respect to Credit Exposure under the Canadian Revolving Loans or Canadian Revolving Commitments unless such Person is either not resident in Canada for the purpose of the ITA or is not deemed to be resident in Canada for the purpose of Part XIII of the ITA. "EMU Legislation" means the legislative measures of the European Union for the introduction of, changeover to, or operation of, the Euro in one or more member states. "Environmental Claim" means any notice of violation, claim, suit, demand, abatement order, or other lawful order by any Governmental Authority or any Person for any damage, personal injury (including sickness, disease or death), property damage, contribution, cost recovery, or any other common law claims, indemnity, indirect or consequential damages, damage to the environment, nuisance, cost recovery, or any other common law claims, pollution, contamination or other adverse effects on the environment, human health, or natural resources, or for fines, penalties, restrictions or injunctive relief, resulting from or based upon (a) the occurrence or existence of a Release or substantial threat of a material Release (whether sudden or non-sudden or accidental or non-accidental) of, or exposure to, any Contaminant in, into or onto the environment at, in, by, from or related to the Premises or (b) the violation, or alleged violation, of any Environmental Laws relating to environmental matters connected with any Borrower's operations or any Premises. "Environmental Laws" means any and all applicable foreign, federal, state or local laws, statutes, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, orders, decrees, judgments, directives, or Environmental Permits relating to the protection of health, safety or the environment, including, but not limited to, the following statutes as now written and hereafter amended: the Water Pollution Control Act, as codified in 33 U.S.C. ss. 1251 et seq., the Clean Air Act, as codified in 42 U.S.C. ss. 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, as codified in 15 U.S.C. ss. 2601 et seq., the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as codified in 42 U.S.C. ss. 6901 et seq., the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as codified in 42 U.S.C. ss. 9601 et seq., the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, as codified in 42 U.S.C. ss. 11001 et seq., and the Safe Drinking Water Act, as codified in 42 U.S.C. ss. 300f et seq., the Canadian Environmental Protection Act (Canada), the Fisheries Act (Canada) and the Waste Management Act (British Columbia) and any related regulations, as well as all provincial, state, local or other equivalents. "Environmental Lien" means a Lien in favor of any Governmental Authority for (i) any liability under Environmental Laws, or licenses, authorizations, or directions of any Government Authority or court, or (ii) damages relating to, or costs incurred by such Governmental Authority in response to, a Release or threatened Release of a Contaminant into the environment. "Environmental Permits" means any and all permits, licenses, certificates, authorizations or approvals of any Governmental Authority required by Environmental Laws and necessary or reasonably required for the current and anticipated future operation of the business of Company or any Subsidiary of Company. "Environmental Study" means those certain environmental assessments, and documents upon which such assessments are based, prepared by an environmental consulting firm acceptable to Administrative Agent with regard to the existing and potential liability of any Credit Party with respect to any environmental matters, including a review of compliance with Environmental Laws. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as from time to time amended. "ERISA Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which, together with such Person, is under common control as described in Section 414(c) of the Code or is a member of a "controlled group", as defined in Section 414(b) of the Code which includes such Person. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to an "ERISA Affiliate" in this Agreement shall refer to an ERISA Affiliate of Company or any Subsidiary. "Euro" means the lawful currency adopted by or which is adopted by participating member states of the European Community relating to Economic and Monetary Union. "Eurocurrency Loan" means any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate. "Eurocurrency Rate" shall mean the aggregate of (1) and (2) below: 1. (a) in the case of Dollar denominated loans, (i) the rate per annum equal to the rate determined by Administrative Agent to be the offered rate that appears on the Telerate Screen that displays an average British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in Dollars (for delivery on the first day of such interest period) with a term equivalent to such interest period, determined as of approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the applicable Interest Rate Determination Date and, in the event such rate is not available, (ii) the arithmetic average (rounded up to the nearest 1/100th of 1%) of the offered quotation in the interbank eurodollar market by the Reference Lenders to first class banks for Dollar deposits of amounts in immediately available funds with a term equivalent comparable to the interest period for which a Eurocurrency Rate is determined, as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the applicable Interest Rate Determination Date; or (b) in the case of Euro denominated loans, (i) the rate per annum equal to the rate determined by Administrative Agent to be the offered rate that appears on the appropriate page of the Telerate Screen that displays EURIBOR (for delivery on the first day of such interest period) with a term equivalent to such interest period, determined as of approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the applicable Interest Rate Determination Date and, in the event such rate is not available, (ii) the arithmetic average (rounded up to the nearest 1/100 th of 1%) of the offered quotation in the European interbank market by the Reference Lenders for Euro deposits of amounts in immediately available funds with a term equivalent comparable to the interest period for which a Eurocurrency Rate is determined, as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the applicable Interest Rate Determination Date; or (c) in the case of Sterling denominated loans, (i) the rate per annum equal to the rate determined by Administrative Agent to be the offered rate that appears on the appropriate page of the Telerate Screen that displays LIBOR (for delivery on the first day of such interest period) with a term equivalent to such interest period, determined as of approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the applicable Interest Rate Determination Date and, in the event such rate is not available, (ii) the arithmetic average (rounded up to the nearest 1/100 th of 1%) of the offered quotation in the London interbank market by the Reference Lenders for Sterling deposits of amounts in immediately available funds with a term equivalent comparable to the interest period for which a Eurocurrency Rate is determined, as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the applicable Interest Rate Determination Date; and 2. the then current Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements. "Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements" means, for any day as applied to a Eurocurrency Loan, the aggregate (without duplication) of the maximum rates (expressed as a decimal fraction) of reserve liquid asset or similar requirements in effect on such day (including, without limitation, basic, supplemental, marginal and emergency reserves under any regulations of the Board or other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction with respect thereto), including without limitation, under regulations issued from time to time by (a) the Board, (b) any Governmental Authority of the jurisdiction of the relevant currency or (c) any Governmental Authority of any jurisdiction in which advances in such currency are made to which banks in any jurisdiction are subject for any category of deposits or liabilities customarily used to fund loans in such currency or by reference to which interest rates applicable to loans in such currency are determined, including the cost to the Lenders of complying with mandatory liquid asset and special deposit requirements, if any, of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank or any successor body exercising their functions in this respect. "European Loan Guaranty" is defined on Schedule 5.1(c) "European Permitted Receivables Transfer" means (i) a sale or other transfer (including by way of subrogation under Article 1250-1 of the French Civil Code) by Schmalbach and/or Continental Can Company Limited to Interprise of "Receivables" and "Related Security" under and as such terms are defined in the European Receivables Purchase Agreements, in accordance with the terms of the European Receivables Purchase Agreements and (ii) a transfer by way of subrogation under Article 1250-1 of the French Civil Code by Continental Can France S.A.S. to Continental Can Company, Ltd. of "Receivables" and "Related Security" under and as such terms are defined in the French Receivables Subrogation Agreement to Continental Can Company Limited in accordance with the terms of the French Receivables Subrogation Agreement. "European Pledge Agreement" is defined on Schedule 5.1(c). "European Receivables Purchase Agreements" means the French Onward Subrogation Agreement, the German Receivables Purchase Agreement and the UK Receivables Purchase Agreement. "European Receivables Purchase Documents" means the French Receivables Subrogation Agreement, the European Receivables Purchase Agreements and the Schmalbach Guarantee Agreement. "European Swing Line Lender" means Deutsche Bank, AG, London Branch or Affiliate of DB in such capacity. "European Swing Line Loans" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.1(c)(i)(2). "European Swing Line Note" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.2(a). "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 10.1. "Excess Cash Flow" means, for any period, an amount equal to the Company's and its Subsidiaries' consolidated: (i) Consolidated EBITDA for such period, minus (ii) foreign, federal, state and local taxes in each case based on income paid in cash for such period, minus (iii) Consolidated Capital Expenditures paid in cash during such period to the extent not financed by Indebtedness (including Capitalized Lease Obligations but excluding Loans hereunder or under overdraft lines permitted by this Agreement), minus (iv) Dividends paid in cash by Company during such period to the extent permitted pursuant to Section 8.5, minus (v) Consolidated Cash Interest Expense during such period, minus (vi) scheduled amortization of the principal portion of the Term Loans and of the principal portion of all other Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries paid in cash during such period (other than repayment of Indebtedness with proceeds of issuance of other Indebtedness or equity or equity contributions or with Net Sale Proceeds or Recovery Events), minus (vii) non cash charges added back to Consolidated EBITDA in a previous period pursuant to clauses (ix) or (x) of the definition thereof to the extent any such charge has become a cash item in the current period, minus (viii) for the fiscal years ending on December 31, 2003, December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, the cash portion of any cash rationalization cost with respect to the Schmalbach Acquisition as evidenced by the reduction of the relevant balance sheet liability of the Company in accordance with GAAP ("Rationalization Costs"), in an amount not to exceed $25,000,000 in the aggregate for the period commencing on the date hereof through and including December 31, 2005 only to the extent such Rationalization Costs are not reflected on the Company's consolidated income statement as prepared in accordance with GAAP, minus (ix) voluntary prepayments of the principal portion of the Term Loans, in each case calculated in accordance with GAAP, plus (x) the decrease, if any, in Adjusted Working Capital from the first day to the last day of such period, minus (xi) the increase, if any, in Adjusted Working Capital from the first day to the last day of such period. "Excess Cash Flow Period" means, with respect to the repayment required on each Excess Cash Payment Date, the immediately preceding Fiscal Year of Company. "Excess Cash Payment Date" means the date occurring 100 days after the last day of a Fiscal Year of Company (beginning with its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2003). "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and as codified in 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq., and as hereafter amended. "Exchange Rate" shall mean, on any day, (a) with respect to conversions between any Alternative Currency (other than Canadian Dollars) and Dollars, the Spot Rate and (b) with respect to conversions between Canadian Dollars and Dollars, the spot rate set forth on the Reuters World Currency Page for Canadian Dollars (or, if not so quoted, the spot rate of exchange quoted for wholesale transactions made by Canadian Administrative Agent in Toronto, Ontario) at 12:00 noon (Toronto time), on such day, provided that, if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, as applicable, may use any reasonable method it deems applicable to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. For purposes of determining the Exchange Rate in connection with an Alternative Currency Borrowing such Exchange Rate shall be determined as of the Exchange Rate Determination Date for such Borrowing. Administrative Agent shall provide Borrowers with the then current Exchange Rate from time to time upon any Borrower's request therefor. "Exchange Rate Determination Date" means for purposes of the determination of the Exchange Rate of any stated amount on any Business Day in relation to any Alternative Currency Borrowing, the date which is three Business Days prior to such Borrowing. "Excluded Taxes" means in the case of a Lender or Agent, taxes imposed on or measured by the overall net income, receipts, net profits or capital of such Lender or Agent or a branch of such Lender or Agent (including, branch profits taxes), and franchise taxes imposed on such Lender or Agent by (i) the jurisdiction in which such Lender or Agent is incorporated or organized or (ii) the jurisdiction (or political subdivision or taxing authority thereof) in which such Lender's or Agent's lending office in respect of which payments under this Agreement are made is located or is otherwise carrying on business. "Existing Credit Agreements" means (i) that certain Long-Term Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998, as heretofore amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, among Company, the financial institutions party thereto, The First National Bank of Chicago, as administrative agent for such financial institutions, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as syndication agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as documentation agent, (ii) that certain Short-Term Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998, as heretofore amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, among Company, the financial institutions party thereto, The First National Bank of Chicago, as administrative agent for such financial institutions, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, as syndication agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as documentation agent and (iii) that certain Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 1998, as heretofore amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, among Ball Packaging Products Canada, Inc., Company, as guarantor, the financial institutions party thereto, Bank One Canada, as agent and Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as arranger. "Facility" means any of the credit facilities established under this Agreement. "Facing Agent" means each of DB and any other Lender agreed to by such Lender, Company and Administrative Agent. "Federal Funds Rate" means on any one day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100th of 1%) of the rate on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System only arranged by federal funds brokers, as published as of such day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by DB from three federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by DB. "Fiscal Quarter" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 7.13. "Fiscal Year" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 7.13. "Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of (i) Consolidated EBITDA minus Consolidated Capital Expenditures to (ii) Consolidated Fixed Charges for such period. "Foreign Pension Plan" means any plan, fund (including, without limitation, any super-annuation fund) or other similar program established or maintained outside of the United States of America by Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries primarily for the benefit of employees of Company or such Subsidiaries residing outside the United States of America, which plan, fund, or similar program provides or results in, retirement income, a deferral of income in contemplation of retirement or payments to be made upon termination of employment, and which is not subject to ERISA or the Code. "Foreign Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America or any state thereof or the District of Columbia. "Former Premises" means, at any time, all real property formerly owned, leased or operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries. "French Onward Subrogation Agreement" means that certain French Onward Subrogation Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2002, by and among Schmalbach as parent and master servicer, Continental Can Company Limited as onward seller, Interprise, and Bank One, NA as administrative agent, as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "French Receivables Subrogation Agreement" means that certain French Receivables Subrogation Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2002, by and among Schmalbach as offer agent and parent, Continental Can France S.A.S. as seller and servicer, Continental Can Company Limited as purchaser, and Bank One, NA as administrative agent, as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "Fund" means a Person that is a fund that invests in senior loans. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. as in effect from time to time. "German Receivables Purchase Agreement" means that certain German Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2002, by and among Schmalbach as seller and servicer, Interprise as purchaser, and Bank One, NA as agent, as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "Government Acts" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.10(h). "Governmental Authority" means any nation or government, any intergovernmental or supranational body, any state or other political subdivision thereof and any entity lawfully exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of government, any securities exchange and any self-regulatory organization (including the National Association of Insurance Commissioners). "Guarantee Obligations" means, as to any Person, without duplication, any direct or indirect contractual obligation of such Person guaranteeing or intended to guarantee any Indebtedness or Operating Lease, dividend or other obligation ("primary obligations") of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including, without limitation, any obligation of such Person, whether or not contingent: (i) to purchase any such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor; (ii) to advance or supply funds (a) for the purchase or payment of any such primary obligation, or (b) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor; (iii) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation; or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the owner of such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof; provided, however, that the term Guarantee Obligations shall not include any endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee Obligation at any time shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the lesser at such time of (a) the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee Obligation is made or (b) the maximum amount for which such Person may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee Obligation; or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability (assuming full performance) in respect thereof. "Guaranteed Creditors" means and includes Administrative Agent, the Lenders and each Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender (even if such Lender ceases to be a Lender under this Agreement for any reason) which becomes a party to one or more Interest Rate Agreements or Other Hedging Agreements entered into by a Borrower (other than Company) or its Subsidiaries. "Guaranteed Obligations" means (i) the principal and interest (whether such interest is allowed as a claim in a bankruptcy proceeding with respect to European Holdco, each Subsidiary Borrower and Canadian Borrower or otherwise) on each Note issued by European Holdco, each Subsidiary Borrower and Canadian Borrower to each Lender, and all Loans made under this Agreement and all reimbursement obligations and Unpaid Drawings with respect to Letters of Credit (other than with respect to Company obligations), together with all other obligations (including obligations which, but for the automatic stay under Section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, would become due) and liabilities (including, without limitation, indemnities, fees and interest thereon) of European Holdco, each Subsidiary Borrower and Canadian Borrower to such Lender now existing or hereafter incurred under, arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Documents and the due performance and compliance with all terms, conditions and agreements contained in the Loan Documents by European Holdco, Subsidiary Borrowers and Canadian Borrower, and (ii) all obligations (including obligations which, but for the automatic stay under Section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, would become due) of European Holdco, any Subsidiary Borrower or Canadian Borrower owing under any Interest Rate Agreement or Other Hedging Agreement entered into by European Holdco, any Subsidiary Borrower or Canadian Borrower or any of their Subsidiaries with any Lender or any Affiliate thereof (even if such Lender subsequently ceases to be a Lender under this Agreement for any reason) so long as such Lender or Affiliate participates in such Interest Rate Agreement or Other Hedging Agreement, and their subsequent assigns, if any, whether or not existing or hereafter arising, and the due performance and compliance with all terms, conditions and agreements contained therein. "Guarantors" means, collectively, Company and each Person party to any European Loan Guaranty, Canadian Loan Guaranty and/or United States Loan Guaranty. "Guaranty" means each European Loan Guaranty, Canadian Loan Guaranty and United States Loan Guaranty. "Hazardous Materials" means (a) any petrochemical or petroleum products, radioactive materials, asbestos in any form that is or could become friable, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, transformers or other equipment that contain dielectric fluid containing levels of polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas; (b) any chemicals, materials or substances defined as or included in the definition of "hazardous substances," "hazardous wastes," "hazardous materials," "restricted hazardous materials," "extremely hazardous wastes," "restrictive hazardous wastes," "toxic substances," "toxic pollutants," "contaminants" or "pollutants," or words of similar meaning and regulatory effect; or (c) any other chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited, limited or regulated by any Governmental Authority. "Indebtedness" means, as applied to any Person (without duplication): (i) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money; (ii) the deferred and unpaid balance of the purchase price of assets or services (other than trade payables and other accrued liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business that are not overdue by more than 90 days from the required payment date therefor unless being contested in good faith) which purchase price is (a) due more than six months from the date of incurrence of the obligation in respect thereof or (b) evidenced by a note or a similar written instrument; (iii) all Capitalized Lease Obligations; (iv) all indebtedness secured by any Lien on any property owned by such Person, whether or not such indebtedness has been assumed by such Person or is nonrecourse to such Person; (v) notes payable and drafts accepted representing extensions of credit whether or not representing obligations for borrowed money (other than such notes or drafts for the deferred purchase price of assets or services which does not constitute Indebtedness pursuant to clause (ii) above); (vi) indebtedness or obligations of such Person, in each case, evidenced by bonds, notes or similar written instruments; (vii) the face amount of all letters of credit and bankers' acceptances issued for the account of such Person, and without duplication, all drafts drawn thereunder other than, in each case, commercial or standby letters of credit or the functional equivalent thereof issued in connection with performance, bid or advance payment obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, including, without limitation, performance requirements under workers compensation or similar laws; (viii) all obligations of such Person under Interest Rate Agreements or Other Hedging Agreements; (ix) Guarantee Obligations of such Person; and (x) Attributable Debt of such Person; provided, Indebtedness shall exclude COLI Policy Advances except to the extent such COLI Policy Advances constitute Indebtedness of Company and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Indebtedness to Remain Outstanding" shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6.5(d). "Indemnified Person" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.4(b). "Initial Borrowing" means the first Borrowing by certain Borrowers under this Agreement. "Initial Borrowing Date" means the date of the Initial Borrowing. "Initial Loan" means the first Loan made by the Lenders under this Agreement. "Intellectual Property" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6.21. "Intercompany Indebtedness" means Indebtedness of Company or any of its Subsidiaries which is owing to Company or any of its Subsidiaries. "Interest Coverage Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Cash Interest Expense for such period. "Interest Payment Date" means (a) as to any Base Rate Loan or Canadian Prime Rate Loan, each Quarterly Payment Date to occur while such Loan is outstanding, (b) as to any Eurocurrency Loan having an Interest Period of three months or less the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto and (c) as to any Eurocurrency Loan having an Interest Period longer than three months, each three (3) month anniversary of the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto and the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto; provided, however, that, in addition to the foregoing, each of (i) the date upon which both the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments have been terminated and the Multicurrency Revolving Loans have been paid in full, (ii) the date upon which both the Canadian Revolving Commitments have been terminated and the Canadian Revolving Loans have been paid in full and (iii) the applicable Term Maturity Date shall be deemed to be an "Interest Payment Date" with respect to any interest which is then accrued hereunder for such Loan. "Interest Period" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3.4. "Interest Rate Agreement" means any interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap agreement, interest rate collar agreement, interest rate futures contract, interest rate option contract or other similar agreement or arrangement to which Company or any Subsidiary is a party. "Interest Rate Determination Date" means the date for calculating the Eurocurrency Rate for an Interest Period, which date shall be (i) in the case of any Eurocurrency Loan in Dollars, the second Business Day prior to first day of the related Interest Period for such Loan or (ii) in the case of any Eurocurrency Loan in an Alternative Currency, the date on which quotations would ordinarily be given by prime banks in the relevant interbank market for deposits in the Applicable Currency for value on the first day of the related Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Loan; provided, however, that if for any such Interest Period with respect to an Alternative Currency Loan, quotations would ordinarily be given on more than one date, the Interest Rate Determination Date shall be the last of those dates. "Interprise" means International Preferred Securitization (Interprise) B.V., a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands. "Inventory" means, inclusively, all inventory as defined in the UCC from time to time and all goods, merchandise and other personal property wherever located, now owned or hereafter acquired by Company or any of its Subsidiaries of every kind or description which are held for sale or lease or are furnished or to be furnished under a contract of service or are raw materials, work-in-process or materials used or consumed or to be used or consumed in Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' business. "Investment" means, as applied to any Person, (i) any direct or indirect purchase or other acquisition by that Person of, or a beneficial interest in, Securities of any other Person, or a capital contribution by that Person to any other Person (ii) any direct or indirect loan or advance to any other Person (other than prepaid expenses or Receivable created or acquired in the ordinary course of business), including all Indebtedness to such Person arising from a sale of property by such person other than in the ordinary course of its business (iii) any Acquisition or (iv) any purchase by that Person of a futures contract or such person otherwise becoming liable for the purchase or sale of currency or other commodity at a future date in the nature of a futures contract. The amount of any Investment by any Person on any date of determination shall be the sum of the value of the gross assets transferred to or acquired by such Person (including the amount of any liability assumed in connection with such transfer or acquisition by such Person to the extent such liability would be reflected on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP) plus the cost of all additions thereto, without any adjustments for increases or decreases in value, or write-ups, write-downs or write-offs with respect to such Investment, minus the amount of all cash returns of principal or capital thereon, cash dividends thereon and other cash returns on investment thereon or liabilities expressly assumed by another Person (other than Company or another Subsidiary of Company) in connection with the sale of such Investment. Whenever the term "outstanding" is used in this Agreement with reference to an Investment, it shall take into account the matters referred to in the preceding sentence. "IRS" means the United States Internal Revenue Service, or any successor or analogous organization. "ITA" means the Income Tax Act (Canada), as from time to time amended, including the regulations proposed or promulgated thereunder, or any successor statute and the regulations proposed or promulgated thereunder. "LC Commission" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.10(g)(ii). "LC Obligations" means, at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate Stated Amount of the then outstanding Letters of Credit and (b) the aggregate amount of Unpaid Drawings under Letters of Credit which have not then been reimbursed pursuant to Section 2.10(f). The LC Obligation of any Lender at any time shall mean its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the aggregate LC Obligations outstanding at such time. "LC Participant" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.10(e). "LC Supportable Indebtedness" means (i) obligations of Company or its Subsidiaries incurred in the ordinary course of business with respect to insurance obligations and workers' compensation, surety bonds and other similar statutory obligations and (ii) such other obligations of Company or any of its Subsidiaries as are reasonably acceptable to the respective Facing Agent and otherwise not restricted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. "Lender" and "Lenders" have the respective meanings assigned to those terms in the introduction to this Agreement and shall include any Person that becomes a "Lender" as contemplated by Section 12.8. "Lender Default" means (i) the refusal (which has not been retracted) of a Lender to make available its portion of any Borrowing or to fund its portion of any unreimbursed payment under Section 2.10(f) or (ii) a Lender having notified in writing Borrowers and/or Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its obligations under Section 2.10(e) or Section 2.10(f), as a result of any takeover of such Lender by any regulatory authority or agency. "Letter of Credit Payment" means as applicable (a) all payments made by the respective Facing Agent pursuant to either a draft or demand for payment under a Letter of Credit or (b) all payments by Lenders having Multicurrency Revolving Commitments to such Facing Agent in respect thereof (whether or not in accordance with their Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share). "Letter of Credit Request" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.10(c). "Letters of Credit" is defined in Section 2.10(a). "Leverage Ratio" means, for any period, the ratio of Consolidated Debt as of the last day of such period to Consolidated EBITDA for such period. "Lien" means (i) any judgment lien or execution, attachment, levy, distraint or similar legal process and (ii) any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, collateral assignment, security interest, encumbrance, lien (statutory or otherwise), charge or deposit arrangement (other than a deposit to a Deposit Account not intended as security) of any kind or other arrangement of similar effect (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or lease in the nature thereof, any agreement to give any of the foregoing, or any sale of receivables with recourse against the seller or any Affiliate of the seller). "Loan" means any Term Loan, Multicurrency Revolving Loan, Canadian Revolving Loan or Swing Line Loan and "Loans" means all such Loans collectively. "Loan Documents" means, collectively, this Agreement, the Notes, each Letter of Credit, each Security Document, each United States Loan Guaranty, each European Loan Guaranty, each Canadian Loan Guaranty, each Interest Rate Agreement and Other Hedging Agreement to which any Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender is a party, and all other agreements, instruments and documents executed in connection therewith, in each case as the same may at any time be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect. "Majority Lenders" of any Facility means those Non-Defaulting Lenders which would constitute the Required Lenders under, and as defined in, this Agreement if all outstanding Obligations of other Facilities under this Agreement were repaid in full and all Commitments with respect thereto were terminated. "Manufacturing Supply Agreement" means that certain Manufacturing Supply Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1994, by and between Canadian Borrower and Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation and successor by assignment to the Company, as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified as of the date hereof. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, financial condition, operations or prospects of Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of Company or any Subsidiary to perform, in any material respect, its respective obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party, or (c) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the Security Documents. "Material Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of Company, which either (i) the consolidated total assets of which were more than 3% of the Company's Consolidated Assets as of the end of the most recently completed Fiscal Year of Company for which audited financial statements are available or (ii) the consolidated total revenues of which were more than 7% of Company's consolidated total revenues for such period; provided that, in the event the aggregate of the total assets of all Subsidiaries that do not constitute Material Subsidiaries exceeds 7% of Company's Consolidated Assets as of such date or the consolidated total revenues of such Subsidiaries exceeds 12% of Company's consolidated total revenues as of such date, Company (or Administrative Agent, in the event Company has failed to do so promptly (and in any event within thirty (30) Business Days) after request therefor by Administrative Agent) shall, to the extent necessary, designate, on a reasonable basis, sufficient Subsidiaries (other than members of the BAP Group or any Permitted Aerospace JV) to be deemed to be "Material Subsidiaries" to eliminate such excess, and such designated Subsidiaries shall thereafter constitute Material Subsidiaries. Assets of Foreign Subsidiaries shall be converted into Dollars at the rates used for purposes of preparing the consolidated balance sheet of Company included in such audited financial statements. "Maximum Commitment" means, when used with reference to any Lender, the aggregate of such Lender's Term Commitments, Multicurrency Revolving Commitment and Canadian Revolving Commitment in the amounts not to exceed those set forth opposite the name of such Lender on Schedule 1.1(a) hereto, subject to reduction from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. "Minimum Borrowing Amount" means (i) with respect to Base Rate Loans, $1,000,000, (ii) with respect to Eurocurrency Loans, $5,000,000 in the case of a Borrowing in Dollars, (pound)3,000,000 in the case of a Borrowing in Sterling and (euro)5,000,000 in the case of a Borrowing in Euros, (iii) with respect to U.S. Swing Line Loans, $1,000,000, (iv) with respect to European Swing Line Loans, (pound)500,000 in the case of a Borrowing in Sterling and (euro)1,000,000 in the case of a Borrowing in Euro, (v) with respect to Canadian Prime Rate Loans, Cdn.$1,000,000, and (vi) with respect to B/A Loans Cdn.$5,000,000. "Minimum Borrowing Multiple" means, (i) in the case of a Borrowing in Dollars, $1,000,000, (ii) in the case of a Borrowing in Euros, (euro)1,000,000, (iii) in the case of a Borrowing in Sterling (pound)500,000 and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing in Canadian Dollars, Cdn.$1,000,000. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof. "Most Recent Leverage Ratio" means, at any date, the Leverage Ratio for the Test Period ending as of the most recently ended Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have been delivered to the Lenders pursuant to Section 7.1; provided, however, that if Company fails to deliver such financial statements as required by Section 7.1 and further fails to remedy such default within five days of notice thereof from Administrative Agent, then, without prejudice to any other rights of any Lender hereunder, the Most Recent Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be greater than 3.0 to 1 as of the date such financial statements were required to be delivered under Section 7.1. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the provisions of the last sentence of Section 3.3, from the date hereof to the date six (6) months after the date of the Initial Borrowing hereunder, the Most Recent Leverage Ratio shall not be less than 3.0 to 1. "Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share" means, when used with reference to any Multicurrency Revolving Lender and any described aggregate or total amount, an amount equal to the result obtained by multiplying such described aggregate or total amount by a fraction the numerator of which shall be such Multicurrency Revolving Lender's Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or, if the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date has occurred, the Effective Amount of such Multicurrency Revolving Lender's then outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans and the denominator of which shall be the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments or, if the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date has occurred, the Effective Amount of all then outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans. "Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit" means, when used in reference to Company, the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment and when used in reference to European Holdco or a Subsidiary Borrower, the maximum aggregate Effective Amount of outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans, LC Obligations and Swing Line Loans permitted to be borrowed by European Holdco or such Subsidiary Borrower, which amount is set forth on Schedule 1.1(b) attached hereto. "Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date" means the earliest to occur of (i) December 19, 2007 or (ii) such earlier date as the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments shall have been terminated or otherwise reduced to $0 pursuant to this Agreement. "Multicurrency Revolving Commitment" means, with respect to any Multicurrency Revolving Lender, the obligation of such Multicurrency Revolving Lender to make Multicurrency Revolving Loans, as such commitment may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to this Agreement, which commitment as of the date hereof is the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule 1.1(a) hereto under the caption "Amount of Multicurrency Revolving Commitment" as the same may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof and "Multicurrency Revolving Commitments" means such commitments collectively, which commitments equal $415,000,000 in the aggregate as of the date hereof. "Multicurrency Revolving Facility" means the credit facility under this Agreement evidenced by the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments and the Multicurrency Revolving Loans. "Multicurrency Revolving Lender" means any Lender which has a Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or is owed a Multicurrency Revolving Loan (or a portion thereof). "Multicurrency Revolving Loan" and "Multicurrency Revolving Loans" have the meanings given in Section 2.1(b). "Multicurrency Revolving Note" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.2(a). "Multiemployer Plan" means a Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which Company or any Subsidiary of Company or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute. "Net Offering Proceeds" means the proceeds received from (a) the issuance of any Capital Stock (or capital contribution with respect to Capital Stock) or (b) the incurrence of any Indebtedness, in each case net of the liabilities for reasonably anticipated cash taxes in connection with such issuance or incurrence, if any, any underwriting, brokerage and other customary selling commissions incurred in connection with such issuance or incurrence, and reasonable legal, advisory and other fees and expenses, including, without limitation, title and recording tax expenses, if any, incurred in connection with such issuance or incurrence. "Net Sale Proceeds" means, with respect to any Asset Disposition (including any Aerospace Asset Disposition) the aggregate cash payments received by Company or any Subsidiary from such Asset Disposition (including, without limitation, cash received by way of deferred payment pursuant to a note receivable, conversion of non-cash consideration, cash payments in respect of purchase price adjustments or otherwise, but only as and when such cash is received) minus the direct costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith (including in the case of any Asset Disposition, the payment of the outstanding principal amount of, premium, if any, and interest on any Indebtedness (other than hereunder) required to be repaid as a result of such Asset Disposition); and any provision for taxes in respect thereof made in accordance with GAAP, provided that, such expenses shall only include taxes to the extent that taxes are payable in cash in the current year or the following year as a result of such Asset Disposition. Any proceeds received in a currency other than Dollars shall, for purposes of the calculation of the amount of Net Sale Proceeds, be in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent thereof as of the date of receipt thereof by Company or any Subsidiary of Company. "Non-Defaulting Lender" means each Lender which is not a Defaulting Lender. "Note" means any of the Canadian Revolving Notes, the Multicurrency Revolving Notes, the Swing Line Note or the Term Notes and "Notes" means all of such Notes collectively. "Notice Address" shall mean the office of Administrative Agent located at 90 Hudson Street, 5th Floor, Jersey City, New Jersey 07302, or such other office as Administrative Agent may hereafter designate in writing as such to the other parties hereto, provided that in the case of all borrowings under any Term Facility funded in an Alternative Currency and all borrowings in Alternative Currencies under the Multicurrency Revolving Facility and all notices relating thereto, the "Notice Office" shall mean the office specified above, with a copy of the respective notice to be delivered at the same time as otherwise required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to the office of Administrative Agent located at Deutsche Bank AG London Branch, 1 Appold Street, Broadgate, London EC2A HE, Attention: Loans Agency Department. "Notice of Borrowing" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.5. "Notice of Canadian Borrowing" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2A.5. "Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2A.6. "Notice of Conversion or Continuation" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.6. "Notice Office" means the office of Administrative Agent located at 90 Hudson Street, 5th Floor, Jersey City, New Jersey 07302, Attn: Commercial Loan Division, or such other office as Administrative Agent may designate to Borrowers and the Lenders from time to time and with respect to Canadian Administrative Agent, 222 Bay Street, Suite 1100, P.O. Box 64, Toronto, Canada M5K1E7, or such other office as Canadian Administrative Agent may designate to Borrowers and the Lenders from time to time. "Obligations" means all liabilities and obligations of Company and its Subsidiaries now or hereafter arising under this Agreement and all of the other Loan Documents, whether for principal, interest, fees, expenses, indemnities or otherwise, and whether primary, secondary, direct, indirect, contingent, fixed or otherwise (including obligations of performance). "Operating Lease" of any Person, means any lease (including, without limitation, leases which may be terminated by the lessee at any time) of any property (whether real, personal or mixed) by such Person, as lessee, which is not a Capitalized Lease. "Organizational Documents" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's articles or certificate of incorporation, certificate of amalgamation, memorandum or articles of association, bylaws, partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement, joint venture agreement or other similar governing documents and any document setting forth the designation, amount and/or relative rights, limitations and preferences of any class or series of such Person's Capital Stock. "Other Hedging Agreement" means any foreign exchange contract, currency swap agreement, futures contract, commodity agreements, option contract, synthetic cap or other similar agreement. "Outstanding Letters of Credit" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.10(j). "Overnight Euro Rate" on any date shall mean the offered quotation to first-class banks in the London interbank market by European Swing Line Lender for Euro overnight deposits of amounts in immediately available funds comparable to the outstanding principal amount of the Euro Swing Line Loan of European Swing Line Lender as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on such date, provided that in the event Administrative Agent has made any determination pursuant to Section 3.6 in respect of European Swing Line Loans denominated in Euros, or in the circumstances described in Section 3.6 in respect of European Swing Line Loans denominated in Euros, the Overnight Euro Rate determined pursuant to this definition shall instead be the rate determined by European Swing Line Lender as the all-in-cost of funds for European Swing Line Lender to fund such Euro Swing Line Loan in each case, plus the Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Multicurrency Revolving Loans. "Overnight LIBOR Rate" on any date shall mean the offered quotation to first-class banks in the London interbank market by European Swing Line Lender for Sterling overnight deposits of amounts in immediately available funds comparable to the outstanding principal amount of the European Swing Line Loan denominated in Sterling of European Swing Line Lender as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on such date, provided, that in the event Administrative Agent has made any determination pursuant to Section 3.6 in respect of European Swing Line Loans denominated in Sterling, or in the circumstances described in Section 3.6 in respect of European Swing Line Loan, the Overnight LIBOR Rate determined pursuant to this definition shall instead be the rate determined by European Swing Line Lender as the all-in-cost of funds for European Swing Line Lender to fund such European Swing Line Loan, in each case, plus the Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Multicurrency Revolving Loans. "Overnight Rate Loan" shall mean each European Swing Line Loan which bears interest at a rate determined with reference to the Overnight Euro Rate or the Overnight LIBOR Rate, as applicable based on the Alternative Currency borrowed. "Participants" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.8(b). "Participating Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of Company that is a participant in a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization. "Payment Office" means (a) with respect to Administrative Agent or U.S. Swing Line Lender, for payments with respect to Dollar-denominated Loans and, except as provided in clauses (b) and (c) below, all other amounts, 90 Hudson Street, 5th Floor, Jersey City, New Jersey 07302, Attn: Commercial Loan Division, or such other address as Administrative Agent or U.S. Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, may from time to time specify in accordance with Section 12.3, (b) with respect to Administrative Agent or European Swing Line Lender, for payments in any Alternative Currency, such account at such bank or office in London or such other place as Administrative Agent or European Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, shall designate by notice to the Person required to make the relevant payment and (c) with respect to Canadian Administrative Agent, for payments with respect to Canadian Revolving Loans, such account at such bank or office in Canada or such other place as Canadian Administrative Agent shall designate by notice to the Person required to make the relevant payment. "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation created by Section 4002(a) of ERISA. "Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization" means (i) the receivables financing program evidenced by the European Receivables Purchase Documents and the receivables financing program evidenced by the Domestic Receivables Purchase Documents, in each case, together with any amendments, restatements or other modifications or refinancings permitted by this Agreement, provided that, the recourse obligations of Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a Receivables Subsidiary) are not increased in any material respect and such documentation is otherwise on market terms and conditions after giving effect to such amendment or other modification and (ii) any other receivables financing program providing for the sale or transfer of Receivables Facility Assets by Company or its Participating Subsidiaries to a Receivables Subsidiary in transactions purporting to be sales (and treated as sales for GAAP purposes), in each case, without any guarantee by Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a Receivables Subsidiary) and otherwise on market terms and conditions. "Permitted Acquisition" means any Acquisition by Company or a Subsidiary of Company if all of the following conditions are met on the date such Acquisition is consummated: (a) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom; (b) such acquisition has not been preceded by an unsolicited tender offer for such Person by Company or any of its Affiliates; (c) all transactions related thereto are consummated in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable Requirements of Law; (d) in the case of any acquisition of any equity interest in any Person, after giving effect to such acquisition such Person becomes a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Company which is not a member of the BAP Group or any Permitted Aerospace JV (or with respect to any such Person that does not become a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, such Person becomes a Subsidiary of Company, and, to the extent required by Section 7.12, (i) guarantees the Obligations hereunder and (ii) grants the security interest contemplated by such Section 7.12); (e) all actions, if any, required to be taken under Section 7.12 with respect to any acquired or newly formed Subsidiary and its property are taken as and when required under Section 7.12; (f) if the Leverage Ratio (calculated on a Pro Forma Basis for the period of four Fiscal Quarters ending with the Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have most recently been delivered (or were required to be delivered) under Section 7.1) is greater than 2.85 to 1.0, the aggregate purchase price (including assumed Indebtedness for money borrowed and Attributable Debt) of all Acquisitions shall not exceed (a) for any single transaction or series of related transactions, $200,000,000; and (b) for all transactions from and after the date hereof, $300,000,000; and (g) if the aggregate Investment for such acquisition is $50,000,000 or greater (including the maximum value of earn out obligations, if any): (x) after giving effect thereto on a Pro Forma Basis for the period of four Fiscal Quarters ending with the Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have most recently been delivered (or were required to be delivered) under Section 7.1, no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default would exist hereunder; (y) there is at least $100,000,000 of Available Liquidity and (z) on or before the date of such acquisition and before Company or any Subsidiary enters into such acquisition or any agreement therefor (that is not contingent upon such acquisition being permitted under this Agreement), Company delivers to Administrative Agent and Lenders a certificate signed on behalf of Company by the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Company attaching financial statements of the business or Person to be acquired, including income statements or statements of cash flows and, if available, balance sheet statements for at least the fiscal year or the four fiscal quarters then most recently ended, together with pro forma financial statements supporting the calculations required by clauses (x) and (y) hereof, if applicable, certified on behalf of Company by the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Company to the best of his or her knowledge. "Permitted Additional Indebtedness" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 8.2(d). "Permitted Aerospace JV" means a Person (together with its Subsidiaries, if any) organized by the Company or Ball Aerospace and one or more third parties for the purpose, among other things, of conducting the Aerospace Business regardless of whether such Person is a subsidiary, a joint venture or a minority-owned Person provided that (i) such Person shall not be a Controlled Subsidiary and (ii) to the extent the assets (net of cash proceeds) transferred by Company and its Subsidiaries to such Permitted Aerospace JV were more than 3% of Company's Consolidated Assets as of the end of the most recently completed Fiscal Year of Company for which audited financial statements are available or the business transferred by Company and its Subsidiaries to such Permitted Aerospace JV accounted for more than 7% of Company's consolidated total revenues for such period, all of the Capital Stock of such Person owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries shall, promptly and in any event within sixty (60) days, be pledged as collateral to Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors. "Permitted Covenant" means (i) any periodic reporting covenant, (ii) any covenant restricting payments by Company with respect to any securities of Company which are junior to the Permitted Preferred Stock, (iii) any covenant the default of which can only result in an increase in the amount of any redemption price, repayment amount, dividend rate or interest rate, (iv) any covenant providing board observance rights with respect to Company's board of directors and (v) any other covenant that does not adversely affect the interests of the Lenders (as reasonably determined by Administrative Agent). "Permitted Debt Documents" means, collectively, the 2006 Senior Note Documents, the 2008 Subordinated Note Documents, the 2012 Senior Note Documents and any other documents evidencing, guaranteeing or otherwise governing Permitted Additional Indebtedness or Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness of any of the foregoing. "Permitted Guarantee Obligations" means (i) Guarantee Obligations of Company or any of its Subsidiaries of obligations of any Person under leases, supply contracts and other contracts or warranties and indemnities, in each case, not constituting Indebtedness of such Person, which have been or are undertaken or made in the ordinary course of business by Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, guarantees of leases and supply contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business), (ii) Guarantee Obligations arising under the Transaction Documents, (iii) Guarantee Obligations of any Credit Party with respect to Indebtedness permitted under Section 8.2 (other than clauses (b), (f), (g) and (j) of such Section) of any other Credit Party, provided that, to the extent that such Indebtedness is subordinated to the Obligations, such Guarantee Obligations shall be subordinated to the Obligations on terms reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent, (iv) Guarantee Obligations of any Subsidiary that is not a Credit Party with respect to Indebtedness permitted under Section 8.2 (other than clauses (b), (f), (g) and (j) of such Section) of any other Subsidiary that is not a Credit Party, (v) Guarantee Obligations with respect to surety, appeal and performance bonds obtained by Company or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and (vi) additional Guarantee Obligations which (other than Guarantee Obligations of Indebtedness permitted under Section 8.2(b)) do not exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $35,000,000 in the aggregate at any time. "Permitted Liens" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 8.1. "Permitted Preferred Stock" means any preferred stock of Company (or any equity security of Company that is convertible or exchangeable into any preferred stock of Company), so long as the terms of any such preferred stock or equity security of Company (i) do not provide any collateral security, (ii) do not provide any guaranty or other support by any Borrower or any Subsidiaries of any Borrower, (iii) do not contain any mandatory put, redemption, repayment, sinking fund or other similar provision occurring before the eighth anniversary of the Effective Date, (iv) do not require the cash payment of dividends or interest, (v) do not contain any covenants other than any Permitted Covenant, (vi) do not grant the holders thereof any voting rights except for (x) voting rights required to be granted to such holders under applicable law, (y) limited customary voting rights on fundamental matters such as mergers, consolidations, sales of substantial assets, or liquidations involving Company and (z) other voting rights to the extent not greater than or superior to those allocated to Company Common Stock on a per share basis, and (vii) are otherwise reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent. "Permitted Real Property Encumbrances" means (i) as to any particular real property at any time, such easements, encroachments, covenants, rights of way, subdivisions, parcelizations, minor defects, irregularities, encumbrances on title (including leasehold title) or other similar charges or encumbrances which do not, in the reasonable opinion of Administrative Agent, materially detract from the value of such real property for the purpose for which it is held by the owner thereof, (ii) municipal and zoning ordinances and other land use and environmental regulations, which are not violated in any material respect by the existing improvements and the present use made by the owner thereof of the premises, (iii) general real estate taxes and assessments not yet delinquent or the amount or validity of which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued, provided that, adequate provision for the payment of all such taxes known to such Person has been made on the books of such Person to the extent required by GAAP or, in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time in its jurisdiction of organization and (iv) such other items to which Administrative Agent may consent. "Permitted Receivables Transfer" means (i) a sale or other transfer by Ball Metal Food Container Corp., Ball Plastic Container Corp. and BMBCC to Ball Capital Corp. of "Receivables" and "Related Security" under and as such terms are defined in the Domestic Receivables Sale Agreement, in accordance with the terms of the Domestic Receivables Sale Agreement and/or (ii) a sale by Ball Capital Corp. to purchasers in accordance with the terms of the Domestic Receivables Purchase Agreement. "Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness" means a replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension of any Indebtedness by the Person that originally incurred such Indebtedness, provided that (i) the principal amount of such Indebtedness (as determined as of the date of the incurrence of the Indebtedness in accordance with GAAP) does not exceed the principal amount of the Indebtedness refinanced thereby on such date plus the amount of accrued and unpaid fees and expenses incurred in connection with such replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension; (ii) the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of such Indebtedness is not less than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of the Indebtedness being refinanced; (iii) except as permitted in connection with Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness of the 2006 Senior Notes, such Indebtedness is not secured by any assets other than those securing such Indebtedness on the Initial Borrowing Date and is not guaranteed by any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party except to the extent such Person guaranteed such Indebtedness being refinanced; (iv) in the case of other indebtedness the Dollar Equivalent amount which is in excess of $25,000,000, the covenants, defaults and similar provisions applicable to such Indebtedness, taken as a whole, are no more restrictive in any material respect than the provisions contained in the original documentation for such Indebtedness or in this Agreement and do not conflict in any material respect with the provisions of this Agreement and is otherwise on market terms and conditions; and (v) (A) in the case of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness of the 2006 Senior Notes, (1) such Indebtedness is not Indebtedness under the Multicurrency Revolving Facility unless the Senior Secured Leverage Ratio after giving pro forma effect to such Indebtedness would be equal to or less than 2.25 to 1.00 and Available Liquidity after giving effect to such incurrence would equal at least $250,000,000 and (2) unless such Indebtedness is Indebtedness under this Agreement, the scheduled maturity date shall not be earlier than, nor shall any amortization commence, prior to the date that is one year after the latest Term Loan Maturity Date; and (B) in the case of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness of the 2008 Subordinated Notes, (1) such Indebtedness is unsecured, (2) such Indebtedness is subordinated to the Obligations on terms and conditions not less, taken as a whole, favorable to the Lenders than the 2008 Subordinated Notes unless the Leverage Ratio after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness would be equal to or less than 3.00 to 1.00, in which case such Indebtedness may rank pari passu in right of payment to the Facilities and (3) the scheduled maturity date shall not be earlier than, nor shall any amortization commence, prior to the date that is one year after the latest Term Loan Maturity Date. "Person" means an individual or a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, joint stock company, government (or an agency or political subdivision thereof) or other entity of any kind. "Plan" means any plan described in Section 4021(a) of ERISA and not excluded pursuant to Section 4021(b) thereof, which is or has, within the preceding six years, been established or maintained, or to which contributions are being or have been, within the preceding six years, made, by Company, any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliates. "Plan Administrator" has the meaning assigned to the term "administrator" in Section 3(16)(A) of ERISA. "Plan Sponsor" has the meaning assigned to the term "plan sponsor" in Section 3(16)(B) of ERISA. "Pledge Agreements" means, once executed and delivered, each Canadian Pledge Agreement, European Pledge Agreement and United States Pledge Agreement. "Pledged Securities" means all of the Pledged Securities as defined in the Pledge Agreements. "Premises" means, at any time any real estate then owned, leased or operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries. "Pro Forma Balance Sheet" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6.5(a). "Pro Forma Basis" means, (a) with respect to the preparation of pro forma financial statements for purposes of the tests set forth in the definition of Permitted Acquisitions and for any other purpose relating to a Permitted Acquisition, pro forma on the basis that (i) any Indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with such Acquisition was incurred or assumed on the first day of the applicable period, (ii) if such Indebtedness bears a floating interest rate, such interest shall be paid over the pro forma period at the rate in effect on the date of such Acquisition, and (iii) all income and expense associated with the assets or entity acquired in connection with such Acquisition (other than the fees, costs and expenses associated with the consummation of such Acquisition) for the most recently ended four fiscal quarter period for which such income and expense amounts are available shall be treated as being earned or incurred by Company over the applicable period on a pro forma basis without giving effect to any cost savings other than Pro Forma Cost Savings, (b) with respect to the preparation of a pro forma financial statement for any purpose relating to an Asset Disposition, pro forma on the basis that (i) any Indebtedness prepaid out of the proceeds of such Asset Disposition shall be deemed to have been prepaid as of the first day of the applicable Test Period, and (ii) all income and expense (other than such expenses as Company, in good faith, estimates will not be reduced or eliminated as a consequence of such Asset Disposition) associated with the assets or entity disposed of in connection with such Asset Disposition shall be deemed to have been eliminated as of the first day of the applicable Test Period and (c) with respect to the preparation of pro forma financial statements for any purpose relating to an incurrence of Indebtedness, pro forma on the basis that (i) any Indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with such incurrence of Indebtedness was incurred or assumed on the first day of the applicable period, (ii) if such incurrence of Indebtedness bears a floating interest rate, such interest shall be paid over the pro forma period at the rate in effect on the date of the incurrence of such Indebtedness, and (iii) all income and expense associated with the assets or entity acquired in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness (other than the fees, costs and expenses associated with the consummation of such incurrence of Indebtedness) for the most recently ended four fiscal quarter period for which such income and expense amounts are available shall be treated as being earned or incurred by Company over the applicable period on a pro forma basis without giving effect to any cost savings other than Pro Forma Cost Savings. "Pro Forma Cost Savings" means with respect to any Permitted Acquisition, if requested by Company pursuant to the succeeding sentence, the amount of factually supportable and identifiable pro forma cost savings directly attributable to operational efficiencies expected to be created by Company with respect to such Permitted Acquisition which efficiencies can be reasonably computed (based on the four (4) fiscal quarters immediately preceding the date of such proposed acquisition) and are approved by Administrative Agent in its sole discretion acting in good faith. If Company desires to have, with respect to any Permitted Acquisition, the amount of pro forma cost savings directly attributable to the aforementioned operational efficiencies treated as part of the term Pro Forma Cost Savings, then Company shall so notify Administrative Agent and provide written detail with respect thereto not less than five (5) Business Days prior to the proposed date of consummation of such Permitted Acquisition. "Pro Rata Share" means, when used with reference to any Lender and any described aggregate or total amount of any Facility or Facilities, an amount equal to the result obtained by multiplying such described aggregate or total amount by a fraction the numerator of which shall be such Lender's Maximum Commitment with respect to such Facility or Facilities and the denominator of which shall be the Total Commitment with respect to such Facility or Facilities or, if no Commitments are then outstanding, such Lender's aggregate Loans to the total Loans and Obligations hereunder with respect to such Facility. "Projections" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6.5(e). "Quarterly Payment Date" means the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December of each year commencing March 31, 2003. "Receivable(s)" means and includes all of Company's and its Subsidiaries' presently existing and hereafter arising or acquired accounts, accounts receivable, and all present and future rights of Company and its Subsidiaries to payment for goods sold or leased or for services rendered (except those evidenced by instruments or chattel paper), whether or not they have been earned by performance, and all rights in any merchandise or goods which any of the same may represent, and all rights, title, security and guaranties with respect to each of the foregoing, including, without limitation, any right of stoppage in transit. "Receivables Documents" shall mean all documentation relating to any Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization. "Receivables Facility Assets" shall mean all Receivables (whether now existing or arising in the future) of Company or any of its Subsidiaries which are transferred pursuant to a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization, and any assets related thereto, including without limitation (i) all collateral given by the respective account debtor or on its behalf (but not by Company or any of its Subsidiaries) securing such Receivables, (ii) all contracts and all guarantees (but not by Company or any of its Subsidiaries) or other obligations directly related to such Receivables, (iii) other related assets including those set forth in the Receivables Documents, and (iv) proceeds of all of the foregoing. "Receivables Facility Attributable Debt" means at any date of determination thereof in connection with the Receivables Documents, the Domestic Receivables Purchase Documents or the European Receivables Purchase Documents, the aggregate net outstanding amount theretofore paid to the applicable seller of Receivables in respect of the Receivables and related assets sold or transferred by it in connection with such documents (it being the intent of the parties that the amount of Receivables Facility Attributable Debt at any time outstanding approximate as closely as possible the principal amount of Indebtedness which would be outstanding at such time under the Domestic Receivables Purchase Agreement or European Receivables Purchase Agreements, as applicable, if the same were structured as a secured lending agreement rather than a purchase agreement). "Receivables Subsidiary" means a special purpose, bankruptcy remote Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Company which has been or may be formed for the sole and exclusive purpose of engaging in activities in connection with the purchase, sale and financing of Receivables in connection with and pursuant to a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization. "Recovery Event" means the receipt by Company (or any of its Subsidiaries) of any insurance or condemnation proceeds payable (i) by reason of any theft, physical destruction or damage or any other similar event with respect to any properties or assets of Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) by reason of any condemnation, taking, seizing or similar event with respect to any properties or assets of Company or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) under any policy of insurance required to be maintained under Section 7.8; provided, however, that in no event shall payments made under business interruption insurance constitute a Recovery Event. "Reference Lenders" mean DB and Bank of America, N.A. "Refunded Swing Line Loans" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.1(c)(ii). "Register" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.14. "Regulation D" means Regulation D of the Board as from time to time in effect and any successor provision to all or a portion thereof establishing reserve requirements. "Related Fund" means, with respect to any Lender which is a Fund, any other Fund that is administered or managed by the same investment advisor of such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor. "Release" means any release, spill, emission, leaking, pumping, pouring, emptying, dumping, injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, escape, leaching or migration into the environment or into or out of any property of Company or its Subsidiaries, or at any other location, including any location to which Company or any Subsidiary has transported or arranged for the transportation of any Contaminant, including the movement of Contaminants through or in the air, soil, surface water, groundwater or property of Company or its Subsidiaries or at any other location, including any location to which Company or any Subsidiary has transported or arranged for the transportation of any Contaminant. "Remedial Action" means actions legally required to (i) clean up, remove, treat or in any other way address Contaminants in the environment or (ii) perform pre-response or post-response studies and investigations and post-response monitoring and care or any other studies, reports or investigations relating to Contaminants. "Replaced Lender" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3.7. "Replacement Lender" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3.7. "Reportable Event" means a "reportable event" described in Section 4043(c) of ERISA or in the regulations thereunder with respect to a Plan, excluding any event for which the thirty (30) day notice requirement has been waived. "Required Lenders" means Non-Defaulting Lenders the sum of whose Effective Amount of outstanding Term Loans, Multicurrency Revolving Commitments and Canadian Revolving Commitments (or, if after the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or Total Canadian Revolving Commitment, as applicable, has been terminated, outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of outstanding Swing Line Loans and LC Obligations or Canadian Revolving Loans, as applicable) constitute greater than 50% of the sum of (i) the total Effective Amount of outstanding Term Loans of Non-Defaulting Lenders, (ii) the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment less the aggregate Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of Defaulting Lenders (or, if after the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment has been terminated, the total Effective Amount of outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans of Non-Defaulting Lenders and the aggregate Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of all Non-Defaulting Lenders of the total outstanding Swing Line Loans and LC Obligations at such time) and (iii) the Total Canadian Revolving Commitment less the aggregate Canadian Revolving Commitments of the Defaulting Lenders (or, if after the Total Canadian Revolving Commitment has been terminated, the total Effective Amount of outstanding Canadian Revolving Loans of all Non-Defaulting Lenders at such time). "Requirement of Law" means, as to any Person, any law (including common law), treaty, rule or regulation or judgment, decree, determination or award of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, including without limitation, any Environmental Law, in each case imposing a legal obligation or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject. "Responsible Officer" means any of the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President or the Treasurer of Company or, if applicable, any Subsidiary. "Restricted Investment" means any Investment other than an Investment permitted by Section 8.7 (other than clause (j) thereof). "Restricted Payment" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 8.5. "Returns" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 6.9(a). "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement, directly or indirectly, whereby a seller or transferor shall sell or otherwise transfer any real or personal property and then or thereafter lease, or repurchase under an extended purchase contract, conditional sales or other title retention agreement, the same or similar property. "Schedule I Bank" means a bank that is a Canadian chartered bank listed on Schedule I under the Bank Act (Canada). "Schedule II Bank" means a bank that is a Canadian chartered bank listed on Schedule II under the Bank Act (Canada). "Schedule III Bank" means an authorized foreign bank listed on Schedule III under the Bank Act (Canada). "Scheduled Term Repayments" means, for any Term Facility, the scheduled principal repayments set forth in the "Scheduled Term Repayments" definition applicable to such Term Facility. "Scheduled Term A Repayments" means, with respect to the principal payments on the Term A Loans for each date set forth below, the Euro and Sterling amounts set forth opposite thereto, as reduced from time to time pursuant to Sections 4.3 and 4.4: Scheduled Term A Schedule Term A Date Repayment (Euros) Repayment (Sterling) - ---- ----------------- -------------------- March 31, 2003 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 June 30, 2003 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 September 30, 2003 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 December 31, 2003 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 March 31, 2004 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 June 30, 2004 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 September 30, 2004 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 December 31, 2004 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 March 31, 2005 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 June 30, 2005 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 September 30, 2005 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 December 31, 2005 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 March 31, 2006 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 June 30, 2006 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 September 30, 2006 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 December 31, 2006 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 March 31, 2007 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 June 30, 2007 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 September 30, 2007 (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 Term A Loan Maturity Date (euro)6,000,000 (pound)3,950,000 "Scheduled Term B Dollar Repayments" means, with respect to the principal payments on the Term B Dollar Loans for each date set forth below, the Dollar amount set forth opposite thereto, as reduced from time to time pursuant to Sections 4.3 and 4.4. Scheduled Term B Date Dollar Repayment March 31, 2003 $875,000 June 30, 2003 $875,000 September 30, 2003 $875,000 December 31, 2003 $875,000 March 31, 2004 $875,000 June 30, 2004 $875,000 September 30, 2004 $875,000 December 31, 2004 $875,000 March 31, 2005 $875,000 June 30, 2005 $875,000 September 30, 2005 $875,000 December 31, 2005 $875,000 March 31, 2006 $875,000 June 30, 2006 $875,000 September 30, 2006 $875,000 December 31, 2006 $875,000 March 31, 2007 $875,000 June 30, 2007 $875,000 September 30, 2007 $875,000 December 31, 2007 $875,000 March 31, 2008 $875,000 June 30, 2008 $875,000 September 30, 2008 $875,000 December 31, 2008 $875,000 March 31, 2009 $875,000 June 30, 2009 $875,000 September 30, 2009 $875,000 Term B Dollar Loan Maturity Date $326,375,000 "Scheduled Term B Euro Repayments" means, with respect to the principal payments on the Term B Euro Loans for each date set forth below, the Euro amount set forth opposite thereto, as reduced from time to time pursuant to Sections 4.3 and 4.4: Scheduled Term B Euro Date Repayment March 31, 2003 (euro)735,000 June 30, 2003 (euro)735,000 September 30, 2003 (euro)735,000 December 31, 2003 (euro)735,000 March 31, 2004 (euro)735,000 June 30, 2004 (euro)735,000 September 30, 2004 (euro)735,000 December 31, 2004 (euro)735,000 March 31, 2005 (euro)735,000 June 30, 2005 (euro)735,000 September 30, 2005 (euro)735,000 December 31, 2005 (euro)735,000 March 31, 2006 (euro)735,000 June 30, 2006 (euro)735,000 September 30, 2006 (euro)735,000 December 31, 2006 (euro)735,000 March 31, 2007 (euro)735,000 June 30, 2007 (euro)735,000 September 30, 2007 (euro)735,000 December 31, 2007 (euro)735,000 March 31, 2008 (euro)735,000 June 30, 2008 (euro)735,000 September 30, 2008 (euro)735,000 December 31, 2008 (euro)735,000 March 31, 2009 (euro)735,000 June 30, 2009 (euro)735,000 September 30, 2009 (euro)735,000 Term B Euro Loan Maturity Date (euro)274,155,000 "Schmalbach" means Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH, a corporation organized under the laws of Germany. "Schmalbach Acquisition" means, collectively, each respective Acquisition by Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, of all of the Capital Stock of Schmalbach (after its conversion to a German Limited Liability Company) and/or each of its direct and indirect operating subsidiaries. "Schmalbach Guarantee Agreement" means that certain Guarantee Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2000, by and between Schmalbach and Interprise, as such agreement has been amended by that certain Amendment and Restatement Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2001, by and between Schmalbach and Interprise, and as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "Schmalbach Refinancing" means the repayment in full of all material indebtedness for money borrowed of Schmalbach and its Subsidiaries (other than Indebtedness to Remain Outstanding). "Schmalbach Refinancing Documents" means, collectively all agreements, instruments and documents executed in connection with the Schmalbach Refinancing, including, without limitation, any document or instrument necessary to release and terminate any and all security interests thereunder. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto. "Secured Creditors" has the meaning provided in the respective Security Documents to the extent defined therein and shall include any Person who is granted a security interest pursuant to any Loan Document. "Securities" means any stock, shares, voting trust certificates, bonds, debentures, options, warrants, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness, secured or unsecured, convertible, subordinated or otherwise, or in general any instruments commonly known as "securities" or any certificates of interest, shares or participations in temporary or interim certificates for the purchase or acquisition of, or any right to subscribe to, purchase or acquire, any of the foregoing. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Security Documents" means, collectively the Pledge Agreements, and all other documents executed in connection therewith to effect the Pledge Agreements, in each case as the same may at any time be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect. For purposes of this Agreement, "Security Documents" shall also include all pledge agreements and other documents executed in connection therewith to effect such pledge agreements entered into by Company or any Subsidiary of Company after the date of this Agreement in favor of Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors, in each case as the same may at any time be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect. "Senior Secured Leverage Ratio" means for any Test Period, the ratio of Consolidated Secured Debt as of the last day of such Test Period to Consolidated EBITDA for such Test Period. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Corporation or any successor to the rating agency business thereof. "Spot Rate" means, for any currency at any date, the rate quoted by DB as the spot rate for the purchase by DB of such currency with another currency through its foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) for delivery two (2) Business Days later. "Stated Amount" or "Stated Amounts" means (i) with respect to any Letter of Credit issued in Dollars, the stated or face amount of such Letter of Credit to the extent available at the time for drawing (subject to presentment of all requisite documents), and (ii) with respect to any Letter of Credit issued in any currency other than Dollars, the Dollar Equivalent of the stated or face amount of such Letter of Credit to the extent available at the time for drawing (subject to presentment of all requisite documents), in either case as the same may be increased or decreased from time to time in accordance with the terms of such Letter of Credit. "Sterling" means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom. "Subsidiary" of any Person means any corporation, partnership (limited or general), limited liability company, trust or other entity of which a majority of the stock (or equivalent ownership or equity interest) having voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors (if a corporation) or to select the trustee or equivalent managing body or controlling interest, shall, at the time such reference becomes operative, be directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or one or more of the other subsidiaries of such Person or any combination thereof. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" in this Agreement (a) shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of Company and (b) shall not include (i) members of the BAP Group and (ii) any Permitted Aerospace JV. "Subsidiary Borrower" means each Foreign Subsidiary listed as a Subsidiary Borrower in Schedule 1.1(d) as amended from time to time in accordance with Section 12.1(b). "Supermajority Lenders" means Non-Defaulting Lenders the sum of whose Effective Amount of outstanding Term Loans, Multicurrency Revolving Commitments and Canadian Revolving Commitments (or, if after the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or Total Canadian Revolving Commitment, as applicable, has been terminated, outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of outstanding Swing Line Loans and LC Obligations or Canadian Revolving Loans, as applicable) constitute greater than 66-2/3% of the sum of (i) the total Effective Amount of outstanding Term Loans of Non-Defaulting Lenders, (ii) the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment less the aggregate Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of Defaulting Lenders (or, if after the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment has been terminated, the total Effective Amount of outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans of Non-Defaulting Lenders and the aggregate Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of all Non-Defaulting Lenders of the total Effective Amount of outstanding Swing Line Loans and LC Obligations at such time) and (iii) the Total Canadian Revolving Commitment less the aggregate Canadian Revolving Commitments of the Defaulting Lenders (or, if after the Total Canadian Revolving Commitment has been terminated, the total Effective Amount of outstanding Canadian Revolving Loans of all Non-Defaulting Lenders at such time). "Swing Line Commitment" means, with respect to the U.S. Swing Line Lender or European Swing Line Lender, as applicable, at any date, the obligation of such lender to make Swing Line Loans pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(i) in the amount referred to therein. "Swing Line Lender" means, European Swing Line Lender or U.S. Swing Line Lender, as applicable. "Swing Line Loan Participation Certificate" means a certificate, substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.1(c). "Swing Line Loans" means U.S. Swing Line Loans and European Swing Line Loans, collectively. "Syndication Agent" means the Bank of America, N.A. "Syndication Date" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.1(a). "2006 Senior Note Documents" means the 2006 Senior Notes, the 2006 Senior Note Indenture and all other documents evidencing, guaranteeing or otherwise governing the terms of the 2006 Senior Notes. "2006 Senior Note Indenture" means that certain Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998, between Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, as amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms hereof. "2006 Senior Notes" means those certain 7 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2006, issued by Company in the aggregate principal amount of $300 million pursuant to the 2006 Senior Note Indenture, which term shall include and shall constitute the notes issued in exchange therefor as contemplated by the 2006 Senior Note Indenture. "2008 Subordinated Note Documents" means the 2008 Subordinated Notes, the 2008 Subordinated Note Indenture and all other documents evidencing, guaranteeing or otherwise governing the terms of the 2008 Subordinated Notes. "2008 Subordinated Note Indenture" means that certain Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998, between Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, as amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms hereof. "2008 Subordinated Note Acceleration Date" means February 1, 2008. "2008 Subordinated Notes" means those certain 8 1/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, issued by Company in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million pursuant to the 2008 Subordinated Note Indenture, which term shall include and shall constitute the notes issued in exchange therefor as contemplated by the 2008 Subordinated Note Indenture. "2012 Senior Note Documents" means the 2012 Senior Notes, the 2012 Senior Note Indenture and all other documents evidencing, guaranteeing or otherwise governing the terms of the 2012 Senior Notes. "2012 Senior Note Financing" means the issuance (either by private placement or an underwritten public sale) by Company of the 2012 Senior Notes in an aggregate Dollar Equivalent principal amount of not more than $300 million. "2012 Senior Note Indenture" means that certain Indenture dated as of December 19, 2002, between Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, as amended, supplemented or modified in accordance with the terms hereof. "2012 Senior Notes" means those certain 6 7/8% Senior Notes due December 1, 2012, issued by Company in the aggregate principal amount of $300 million pursuant to the 2012 Senior Note Indenture, which term shall include and shall constitute the notes issued in exchange therefor as contemplated by the 2012 Senior Note Indenture. "Tax Sharing Agreements" means all tax sharing, disaffiliation tax allocation and other similar agreements entered into by Company or its Subsidiaries on or before the date of this Agreement. "Taxes" means any and all present and future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and any and all liabilities (including interest and penalties) with respect to the foregoing, but excluding Excluded Taxes. "TBNS" means The Bank of Nova Scotia. "Term A Commitment" means, with respect to any Term A Lender, the principal amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule 1.1(a) hereto or in any Assignment and Assumption Agreement under the caption "Amount of Term A Commitment", as such commitment may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to this Agreement, and "Term A Commitments" means such commitments collectively, which commitments equal (euro)120,000,000 and (pound)79,000,000 in the aggregate as of the date hereof. "Term A Lender" means any Lender which has a Term A Commitment or is owed a Term A Loan (or a portion thereof). "Term A Loan" and "Term A Loans" have the meanings assigned to those terms in Section 2.1(a)(i). "Term A Loan Maturity Date" means December 19, 2007. "Term A Note" and "Term A Notes" have the meanings assigned to those terms in Section 2.2(a). "Term B Dollar Commitment" means, with respect to any Lender, the principal amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule 1.1(a) hereto or in any Assignment and Assumption Agreement under the caption "Amount of Term B Dollar Commitment", as such commitment may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to this Agreement, and "Term B Dollar Commitments" means such commitments collectively, which commitments equal $350,000,000 in the aggregate as of the date hereof. "Term B Dollar Lender" means any Lender which has a Term B Dollar Commitment or is owed a Term B Dollar Loan (or a portion thereof). "Term B Dollar Loan" and "Term B Dollar Loans" have the meanings assigned to those terms in Section 2.1(a)(ii). "Term B Dollar Loan Maturity Date" means the earlier to occur of (i) December 19, 2009 or (ii) the 2008 Subordinated Note Acceleration Date, if the 2008 Subordinated Notes have not been refinanced in full with Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness by such date. "Term B Dollar Note" and "Term B Dollar Notes" have the meanings assigned to those terms in Section 2.2(a). "Term B Euro Commitment" means, with respect to any Lender, the principal amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule 1.1(a) hereto or in any Assignment and Assumption Agreement under the caption "Amount of Term B Euro Commitment", as such commitment may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to this Agreement, and "Term B Euro Commitments" means such commitments collectively, which commitments equal (euro)294,000,000 in the aggregate as of the date hereof. "Term B Euro Lender" means any Lender which has a Term B Euro Commitment or is owed a Term B Euro Loan (or a portion thereof). "Term B Euro Loan" and "Term B Euro Loans" have the meanings assigned to those terms in Section 2.1(a)(iii). "Term B Euro Loan Maturity Date" means the earlier to occur of (i) December 19, 2009 or (ii) the 2008 Subordinated Note Acceleration Date, if the 2008 Subordinated Notes have not been refinanced in full with Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness by such date. "Term B Euro Note" and "Term B Dollar Notes" have the meanings assigned to those terms in Section 2.2(a). "Term Commitment" means, with respect to any Lender and any Term Facility, the principal amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule 1.1(a) hereto or in any Assignment and Assumption Agreement under the caption for the amount of commitment to such Term Facility, as such commitments may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to this Agreement, and "Term Commitments" means such commitments collectively. "Term Facilities" means the Facilities under the Agreement with respect to the Term Loans, collectively. "Term Lender" means, with respect to any Term Facility, any Lender which has a Term Commitment for such Term Facility or is owed a Term Loan (or portion thereof) under such Term Facility. "Term Loans" means the Loans under the Term Facilities, collectively. "Term Maturity Date" means, with respect to any Term Facility, the scheduled maturity date for such Term Facility under this Agreement. "Term Note" and "Term Notes" means the notes provided for in Section 2.2(a) that evidence indebtedness under the Term Facilities, collectively. "Term Percentage" means, at any time with respect to any Term Facility, a fraction (expressed as a percentage) the numerator of which is equal to the aggregate Effective Amount of all Loans under such Term Facility outstanding at such time and the denominator of which is equal to the aggregate Effective Amount of all Term Loans outstanding at such time. "Term Pro Rata Share" means, with respect to any Term Facility, when used with reference to any Lender and any described aggregate or total amount, an amount equal to the result obtained by multiplying such described aggregate or total amount by a fraction the numerator of which shall be such Lender's then outstanding Loans under such Facility and the denominator of which shall be the amount of all then outstanding Loans under such Facility. "Termination Event" means (i) a Reportable Event with respect to any Plan; (ii) the withdrawal of Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Plan during a plan year in which Company or such ERISA Affiliate was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA or the cessation of operations which results in the termination of employment of twenty percent (20%) of Plan participants who are employees of Company or any ERISA Affiliate; (iii) the imposition of an obligation on Company or any ERISA Affiliate under Section 4041 of ERISA to provide affected parties written notice of intent to terminate a Plan in a standard termination or a distress termination described in Section 4041 of ERISA; (iv) the institution by the PBGC or any similar foreign governmental authority of proceedings to terminate a Plan or Foreign Pension Plan; (v) any event or condition which would constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA (other than subparagraph (a)(4) of such Section) for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan; (vi) that a foreign governmental authority shall appoint a trustee to administer any Foreign Pension Plan in place of the existing administrator; (vii) the partial or complete withdrawal of Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or Foreign Pension Plan or (viii) receipt of a notice of reorganization or insolvency with respect to a Multiemployer Plan pursuant to Section 4242 or 4245 of ERISA. "Test Period" means the four consecutive Fiscal Quarters of Company then last ended, provided that, the first Test Period shall end on or about March 31, 2003. "Total Available Canadian Revolving Commitment" means, at the time, any determination thereof is made, the sum of the respective Available Canadian Revolving Commitments of the Lenders at such time. "Total Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment" means, at the time any determination thereof is made, the sum of the respective Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of the Lenders at such time. "Total Canadian Revolving Commitment" means, at any time, the sum of the Canadian Revolving Commitments of each of the Lenders at such time. "Total Commitment" means, at the time any determination thereof is made, the sum of the Term Commitments, Multicurrency Revolving Commitments and Canadian Revolving Commitments at such time. "Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment" means, at any time, the sum of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of each of the Lenders at such time. "Transaction" means and includes (i) each of the Credit Events occurring on the Initial Borrowing Date, (ii) the Schmalbach Acquisition, (iii) the Company Refinancing, (iv) the Schmalbach Refinancing, (v) the issuance of the 2012 Senior Notes, if applicable, (vi) such other transactions as are contemplated by the Documents, and (vii) the payment of fees and expenses in connection with the foregoing. "Transaction Documents" means, collectively, the Acquisition Agreement, the 2012 Senior Note Documents, if applicable, the Company Refinancing Documents and the Schmalbach Refinancing Documents, and including any agreement, document, instrument and certificate executed and/or delivered pursuant to the terms of, or in connection with, any of the foregoing. "Transferee" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 12.8(d). "Type" means any type of Loan, namely, a Base Rate Loan, Canadian Prime Rate Loan, B/A Loan or a Eurocurrency Loan. For purposes hereof, the term "Rate" shall include the Eurocurrency Rate, the Base Rate, the Canadian Prime Rate and the Discount Rate applicable to B/A and B/A Equivalent Loans. "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the relevant jurisdiction. "UK Receivables Purchase Agreement" means that certain UK Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2002, by and among Schmalbach as offer agent, parent and master servicer, Continental Can Company Limited as seller, Interprise as purchaser, Bank One, NA as administrative agent, as such agreement may be amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, or any replacement or substitution therefor. "United States Loan Guaranty" is defined in Section 5.1(b)(i). "United States Pledge Agreement" is defined in Section 5.1(b)(ii). "Unmatured Event of Default" means an event, act or occurrence which with the giving of notice or the lapse of time (or both) would become an Event of Default. "Unpaid Drawing" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10(d). "U.S. Swing Line Lender" means DB in such capacity. "U.S. Swing Line Loans" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.1(c)(i)(1). "U.S. Swing Line Note" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.2(a). "Voting Securities" means any class of Capital Stock of a Person pursuant to which the holders thereof have, at the time of determination, the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to vote for the election of directors, managers, trustees or general partners of such Person (irrespective of whether or not at the time any other class or classes will have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency). "Waivable Prepayment" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 4.5(c). "Weighted Average Life to Maturity" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing (a) the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness into (b) the total of the product obtained by multiplying (x) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect thereof by (y) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment. "Wholly-Owned Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any Subsidiary of such Person, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of which (other than qualifying shares required to be owned by directors) are at the time owned directly or indirectly by such Person and/or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person. "written" or "in writing" means any form of written communication or a communication by means of telecopier device or authenticated telex, telegraph or cable. The foregoing definitions shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms. The words "herein," "hereof" and words of similar import as used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision in this Agreement. References to "Articles", "Sections", "paragraphs", "Exhibits" and "Schedules" in this Agreement shall refer to Articles, Sections, paragraphs, Exhibits and Schedules of this Agreement unless otherwise expressly provided; references to Persons include their respective permitted successors and assigns or, in the case of governmental Persons, Persons succeeding to the relevant functions of such persons; and all references to statutes and related regulations shall include any amendments of same and any successor statutes and regulations. 1.2 Accounting Terms; Financial Statements. (a) All accounting terms used herein but not expressly defined in this Agreement shall have respective meanings given to them in accordance with GAAP in effect on the date hereof in the United States of America. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all computations and determinations for purposes of determining compliance with the financial requirements of this Agreement shall be made in accordance with GAAP in effect on the date hereof in the United States of America and on a basis consistent with the presentation of the financial statements and projections delivered pursuant to, or otherwise referred to in, Sections 6.5(a) and 6.5(e). Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to Section 7.1 shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP in the United States of America as in effect on the respective dates of their preparation. Unless otherwise provided for herein, wherever any computation is to be made with respect to any Person and its Subsidiaries, such computation shall be made so as to exclude all items of income, assets and liabilities attributable to any Person which is not a Subsidiary of such Person. For purposes of the financial terms set forth herein, including, without limitation, for all purposes under Article IX, whenever a reference is made to a determination which is required to be made on a consolidated basis (whether in accordance with GAAP or otherwise) for Company and its Subsidiaries, such determination shall be made as if any Permitted Aerospace JV and each member of the BAP Group were wholly-owned by a Person not an Affiliate of Company. (b) For purposes of computing the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, Interest Coverage Ratio, Leverage Ratio, Most Recent Leverage Ratio and Senior Secured Leverage Ratio, as of the end of any Test Period, all components of such ratios for the applicable Test Period shall include or exclude, as the case may be, without duplication, such components of such ratios attributable to any business or assets that have been acquired or disposed of by Company or any Subsidiary of Company (including through mergers or consolidations) after the first day of such Test Period and prior to the end of such Test Period on a Pro Forma Basis as determined in good faith by Company and certified to by a Responsible Officer of Company to Administrative Agent. 1.3 Calculation of Exchange Rate. On each Exchange Rate Determination Date, Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, as applicable, shall (a) determine the Exchange Rate as of such Exchange Rate Determination Date and (b) give notice thereof to each Borrower and to each Lender that shall have requested such information. The Exchange Rates so determined shall become effective on the first Business Day immediately following the relevant Exchange Rate Determination Date (each, a "Reset Date") and shall remain effective until the next succeeding Reset Date, and shall for all purposes of this Agreement (other than any provision expressly requiring the use of a current Exchange Rate) be the Exchange Rate employed in converting amounts between Dollars and Canadian Dollars or Alternative Currencies. ARTICLE II AMOUNT AND TERMS OF CREDIT 2.1 The Commitments. (a) Term Loans. (i) Term A Loans. Each Term A Lender, severally and for itself alone, hereby agrees, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, to make a loan (each such loan, a "Term A Loan" and collectively, the "Term A Loans") to European Holdco on the Initial Borrowing Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Term A Commitment of such Term A Lender. The Term A Loans (i) shall be incurred by European Holdco pursuant to a single drawing, which shall be on the Initial Borrowing Date, (ii) shall be denominated (euro)120,000,000 in Euros and (pound)79,000,000 in Sterling and (iii) shall be made as Eurocurrency Loans with Interest Periods of seven days and shall be maintained as Eurocurrency Loans, provided that except as permitted by Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, no incurrences of, or conversions into, Term A Loans maintained as Eurocurrency Loans with an Interest Period in excess of seven days (with all such Interest Periods ending on the same day during such period) may be effected prior to the earlier of (1) the 60th day after the Initial Borrowing Date and (2) that date (the "Syndication Date") upon which Administrative Agent determines in its sole discretion (and notifies Company) that the primary syndication (and resultant additions of institutions as Lenders pursuant to Section 12.8(c)) has been completed. Each Term A Lender's Term A Commitment shall expire immediately and without further action on the Initial Borrowing Date if the Term Loans are not made on the Initial Borrowing Date. No amount of a Term A Loan which is repaid or prepaid by European Holdco may be reborrowed hereunder. (ii) Term B Dollar Loans. Each Term B Dollar Lender, severally and for itself alone, hereby agrees, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, to make a loan (each such loan, a "Term B Dollar Loan" and collectively, the "Term B Dollar Loans") to Company on the Initial Borrowing Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Term B Dollar Commitment of such Term B Dollar Lender. The Term B Dollar Loans (i) shall be incurred by Company pursuant to a single drawing, which shall be on the Initial Borrowing Date, (ii) shall be denominated in Dollars and (iii) shall be made as Base Rate Loans and, except as hereinafter provided, may, at the option of Company, be maintained as and/or converted into Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Loans, provided that, (x) all Term B Dollar Loans made by the Term B Dollar Lenders pursuant to the same Borrowing shall, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, consist entirely of Term B Dollar Loans of the same Type and (y) except as permitted by Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, no incurrences of, or conversions into, Term B Dollar Loans maintained as Eurocurrency Loans may be effected prior to the earlier of (1) the 60th day after the Initial Borrowing Date and (2) Syndication Date. Each Term B Dollar Lender's Term B Dollar Commitment shall expire immediately and without further action on the Initial Borrowing Date if the Term Loans are not made on the Initial Borrowing Date. No amount of a Term B Dollar Loan which is repaid or prepaid by Company may be reborrowed hereunder. (iii) Term B Euro Loans. Each Term B Euro Lender, severally and for itself alone, hereby agrees, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, to make a loan (each such loan, a "Term B Euro Loan" and collectively, the "Term B Euro Loans") to European Holdco on the Initial Borrowing Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Term B Euro Commitment of such Term B Euro Lender. The Term B Euro Loans (i) shall be incurred by European Holdco pursuant to a single drawing, which shall be on the Initial Borrowing Date, (ii) shall be denominated in Euros and (iii) shall be made as Eurocurrency Loans with Interest Periods of seven days (with all such Interest Periods ending on the same day during such period) and shall be maintained as Eurocurrency Loans, provided that, except as permitted by Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, no incurrences of, or conversions into, Term B Euro Loans maintained as Eurocurrency Loans with an Interest Period in excess of seven days may be effected prior to the earlier of (1) the 60th day after the Initial Borrowing Date and (2) the Syndication Date. Each Term B Euro Lender's Term B Euro Commitment shall expire immediately and without further action on the Initial Borrowing Date if the Term Loans are not made on the Initial Borrowing Date. No amount of a Term B Euro Loan which is repaid or prepaid by European Holdco may be reborrowed hereunder. (b) Multicurrency Revolving Loans. Each Multicurrency Revolving Lender, severally and for itself alone, hereby agrees, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, to make loans to Company, European Holdco and Subsidiary Borrowers denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency on a revolving basis from time to time during the Commitment Period, in an amount not to exceed its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of (a) with respect to all Borrowers, the Total Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment and (b) with respect to any applicable Borrower, such Borrower's Available Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit (each such loan by any Lender, a "Multicurrency Revolving Loan" and collectively, the "Multicurrency Revolving Loans"). All Multicurrency Revolving Loans comprising the same Borrowing hereunder shall be made by the Multicurrency Revolving Lenders simultaneously and in proportion to their respective Multicurrency Revolving Commitments. Prior to the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date, Multicurrency Revolving Loans may be repaid and reborrowed by Company, European Holdco and Subsidiary Borrowers in accordance with the provisions hereof and, except as otherwise specifically provided herein (i) all Multicurrency Revolving Loans comprising the same Borrowing shall at all times be of the same Type and (ii) no Multicurrency Revolving Loans incurred or maintained as Eurocurrency Loans may have Interest Periods in excess of seven days, except as permitted by Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, if incurred prior to the earlier of (1) the 60th day after the Initial Borrowing Date and (2) the Syndication Date (with all such Interest Periods ending on the same day during such period). (c) Swing Line Loans. (i) Swing Line Commitment. (1) U.S. Swing Line. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the U.S. Swing Line Lender in its individual capacity agrees to make swing line loans in Dollars ("U.S. Swing Line Loans") to Company on any Business Day from time to time during the Commitment Period in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding that, when added to the Dollar Equivalent of the principal amount of European Swing Line Loans then outstanding, do not exceed $40,000,000; provided, however, that in no event may the amount of any Borrowing of U.S. Swing Line Loans (A) exceed the Total Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment immediately prior to such Borrowing (after giving effect to the use of proceeds thereof) or (B) cause the outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans of any Lender, when added to such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the then outstanding Swing Line Loans and Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the aggregate LC Obligations (exclusive of Unpaid Drawings relating to LC Obligations which are repaid with the proceeds of, and simultaneously with the incurrence of, Multicurrency Revolving Loans or Swing Line Loans) to exceed such Lender's Multicurrency Revolving Commitment. Amounts borrowed by Company under this Section 2.1(c)(i)(1) may be repaid and, to but excluding the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date, reborrowed. The U.S. Swing Line Loans shall be made in Dollars and maintained as Base Rate Loans and, notwithstanding Section 2.6, shall not be entitled to be converted into any other Type of Loan. (2) European Swing Line. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the European Swing Line Lender in its individual capacity agrees to make swing line loans in Alternative Currencies ("European Swing Line Loans") to Company, European Holdco or any Subsidiary Borrower on any Business Day from time to time during the Commitment Period in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding that, when added to the principal amount of U.S. Swing Line Loans then outstanding do not to exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $40,000,000; provided, however, that in no event may the amount of any Borrowing of European Swing Line Loans (A) exceed the Total Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment immediately prior to such Borrowing (after giving effect to the use of proceeds thereof), (B) exceed the Available Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit for such Borrower immediately prior to such Borrowing or (C) cause the outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans of any Lender, when added to such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the then outstanding Swing Line Loans and Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the aggregate LC Obligations (exclusive of Unpaid Drawings relating to LC Obligations which are repaid with the proceeds of, and simultaneously with the incurrence of, Multicurrency Revolving Loans or Swing Line Loans) to exceed such Lender's Multicurrency Revolving Commitment. Amounts borrowed under this Section 2.1(c)(i)(2) may be repaid and, to but excluding the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date, reborrowed. The European Swing Line Loans shall be made in Alternative Currencies and maintained as Overnight Rate Loans and, notwithstanding Section 2.6, shall not be entitled to be converted into any other Type of Loan. (ii) Refunding of Swing Line Loans. Each Swing Line Lender, at any time in its sole and absolute discretion, may on behalf of the applicable Borrower (which hereby irrevocably directs each Swing Line Lender to so act on its behalf) notify each Multicurrency Revolving Lender (including such Swing Line Lender) to make a Multicurrency Revolving Loan in the Applicable Currency in an amount equal to such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the principal amount of the applicable Swing Line Loans (the "Refunded Swing Line Loans") outstanding on the date such notice is given; provided, however, that such notice shall be deemed to have automatically been given upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under Section 10.1(e) or 10.1(f). Unless any of the events described in Section 10.1(e) or 10.1(f) shall have occurred (in which event the procedures of Section 2.1(c)(iii) shall apply) and regardless of whether the conditions precedent set forth in this Agreement to the making of a Multicurrency Revolving Loan are then satisfied, each Multicurrency Revolving Lender shall make the proceeds of its Multicurrency Revolving Loan available to the applicable Swing Line Lender at the Payment Office prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, in funds immediately available on the Business Day next succeeding the date such notice is given. The proceeds of such Multicurrency Revolving Loans shall be immediately applied to repay the Refunded Swing Line Loans. (iii) Participation in Swing Line Loans. If, prior to refunding a Swing Line Loan with a Multicurrency Revolving Loan pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(ii), an Event of Default under Section 10.1(e) or 10.1(f) shall have occurred and be continuing, or if for any other reason a Multicurrency Revolving Loan cannot be made pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(ii), then, subject to the provisions of Section 2.1(c)(iv) below, each Multicurrency Revolving Lender will, on the date such Multicurrency Revolving Loan was to have been made, purchase (without recourse or warranty) from the applicable Swing Line Lender an undivided participation interest in the Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of such Swing Line Loan. Upon request, each Multicurrency Revolving Lender will immediately transfer to the applicable Swing Line Lender, in immediately available funds, the amount of its participation and upon receipt thereof such Swing Line Lender will deliver to such Multicurrency Revolving Lender a Swing Line Loan Participation Certificate dated the date of receipt of such funds and in such amount. (iv) Lenders' Obligations Unconditional. Each Lender's obligation to make Multicurrency Revolving Loans in accordance with Section 2.1(c)(ii) and to purchase participating interests in accordance with Section 2.1(c)(iii) above shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including, without limitation, (A) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against any Swing Line Lender, any Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default; (C) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of any Borrower or any other Person; (D) any breach of this Agreement by any Borrower or any other Person; (E) any inability of any Borrower to satisfy the conditions precedent to borrowing set forth in this Agreement on the date upon which such participating interest is to be purchased or (F) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing. If any Lender does not make available to the applicable Swing Line Lender the amount required pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(ii) or (iii) above, as the case may be, such Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover such amount on demand from such Lender, together with interest thereon for each day from the date of non-payment until such amount is paid in full at the Federal Funds Rate for the first two Business Days and at the Base Rate thereafter. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.1(c)(iv), no Lender shall be required to make a Multicurrency Revolving Loan to any Borrower for the purpose of refunding a Swing Line Loan pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(ii) above or to purchase a participating interest in a Swing Line Loan pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(iii) if an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and, prior to the making by the applicable Swing Line Lender of such Swing Line Loan, such Swing Line Lender has received written notice from such Lender specifying that such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, describing the nature thereof and stating that, as a result thereof, such Lender shall cease to make such Refunded Swing Line Loans and purchase such participating interests, as the case may be; provided, however, that the obligation of such Lender to make such Refunded Swing Line Loans and to purchase such participating interests shall be reinstated upon the earlier to occur of (y) the date upon which such Lender notifies such Swing Line Lender that its prior notice has been withdrawn and (z) the date upon which the Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default specified in such notice no longer is continuing. 2.2 Notes. (a) Evidence of Indebtedness. At the request of any Lender, each respective Borrower's obligation to pay the principal of and interest on all the Loans made to each of them by each Lender shall be evidenced, (1) if Term A Loans, by a promissory note (each, a "Term A Note" and, collectively, the "Term A Notes") duly executed and delivered by European Holdco substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.2(a)(1) hereto, with blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith, (2) if Term B Dollar Loans, by a promissory note (each, a "Term B Dollar Note" and, collectively, the "Term B Dollar Notes") duly executed and delivered by Company substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.2(a)(2) hereto, with blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith, (3) if Term B Euro Loans, by a promissory note (each, a "Term B Euro Note" and, collectively, the "Term B Euro Notes") duly executed and delivered by European Holdco substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.2(a)(3) hereto, with blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith, (4) if Multicurrency Revolving Loans, by a promissory note (each, a "Multicurrency Revolving Note" and, collectively, the "Multicurrency Revolving Notes") duly executed and delivered by Company, European Holdco and Subsidiary Borrowers substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.2(a)(4) hereto, with blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith, (5) if U.S. Swing Line Loans, by a promissory note (the "U.S. Swing Line Note" duly executed and delivered by Company substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.2(a)(5) hereto, with blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith, and (6) if European Swing Line Loans, by a promissory note (the "European Swing Line Note" duly executed and delivered by Company, European Holdco and each Subsidiary Borrower substantially in the form of Exhibit 2.2(a)(6) hereto, with the blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith. (b) Notation of Payments. Each Lender will note on its internal records the amount of each Loan made by it, the Applicable Currency and each payment in respect thereof and will, prior to any transfer of any of its Notes, endorse on the reverse side thereof the outstanding principal amount of Loans evidenced thereby. Failure to make any such notation shall not affect any Borrowers' or any Guarantor's obligations hereunder or under the other applicable Loan Documents in respect of such Loans. 2.3 Minimum Amount of Each Borrowing; Maximum Number of Borrowings. The aggregate principal amount of each Borrowing by any Borrower hereunder shall be not less than the Minimum Borrowing Amount and, if greater, shall be in Minimum Borrowing Multiples (other than Swing Line Loans which may be in any amount over the Minimum Borrowing Amount) above such minimum (or, if less, the then Total Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment). More than one Borrowing may be incurred on any date, provided that, unless approved by Administrative Agent, at no time shall there be outstanding more than six Borrowings of Eurocurrency Loans under any Term Facility, or more than twelve Borrowings of Eurocurrency Loans under the Multicurrency Revolving Loan Facility. 2.4 Borrowing Options. The Term Loans denominated in Dollars and Multicurrency Revolving Loans shall, at the option of Borrowers except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, be (i) Base Rate Loans, (ii) Eurocurrency Loans, or (iii) part Base Rate Loans and part Eurocurrency Loans. The Term Loans denominated in Euro and/or Sterling shall be Eurocurrency Loans. As to any Eurocurrency Loan, any Lender may, if it so elects, fulfill its commitment by causing a foreign branch or affiliate with reasonable and appropriate capacities to fund such currency and without any increased cost to Borrowers to make or continue such Loan, provided that, in such event the funding of that Lender's Loan shall, for the purposes of this Agreement, be considered to be the obligation of or to have been made by that Lender and the obligation of the applicable Borrower to repay that Lender's Loan shall nevertheless be to that Lender and shall be deemed held by that Lender, for the account of such branch or affiliate. 2.5 Notice of Borrowing. Whenever Company, European Holdco or any Subsidiary Borrower desires to make a Borrowing of any Loan (other than a Swing Line Loan) hereunder, Company and the applicable Borrower shall give Administrative Agent at its Notice Address at least one Business Day's prior written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing), given not later than 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) of each Base Rate Loan, and at least three Business Days' prior written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing), given not later than 1:00 p.m. (New York City time), of each Eurocurrency Loan to be made hereunder; provided, however, that a Notice of Borrowing with respect to Borrowings to be made on the date hereof may, at the discretion of Administrative Agent, be delivered later than the time specified above. Whenever Company desires that U.S. Swing Line Lender make a U.S. Swing Line Loan under Section 2.1(c)(i)(1), it shall deliver to U.S. Swing Line Lender prior to 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing). Whenever any Borrower (other than Canadian Borrower) desires that European Swing Line Lender make a European Swing Line Loan under Section 2.1(c)(i)(2), Company and the applicable Borrower shall deliver to European Swing Line Lender prior to 1:00 p.m. (London time) on the date of such Borrowing written notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed in writing). Each such notice (each a "Notice of Borrowing"), which shall be in the form of Exhibit 2.5 hereto, shall be irrevocable, shall be deemed a representation by Company and the applicable Borrower that all conditions precedent to such Borrowing have been satisfied and shall specify (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Loans to be made pursuant to such Borrowing (stated in the relevant currency), (ii) the date of Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day) and (iii) whether the Loans being made pursuant to such Borrowing are to be Swing Line Loans and, if not, whether such Loans are to be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Loans and, with respect to Eurocurrency Loans, the Interest Period and Applicable Currency to be applicable thereto. Administrative Agent shall as promptly as practicable give each Lender written or telephonic notice (promptly confirmed in writing) of each proposed Borrowing, of such Lender's Pro Rata Share thereof and of the other matters covered by the Notice of Borrowing. Without in any way limiting Company and the applicable Borrower's obligation to confirm in writing any telephonic notice, Administrative Agent or the Swing Line Lender (in the case of Swing Line Loans) or the respective Facing Agent (in the case of Letters of Credit) may act without liability upon the basis of telephonic notice believed by Administrative Agent in good faith to be from a Responsible Officer of Company and the applicable Borrower prior to receipt of written confirmation. Administrative Agent's records shall, absent manifest error, be final, conclusive and binding on Borrowers with respect to evidence of the terms of such telephonic Notice of Borrowing. Borrowers hereby agree not to dispute Administrative Agent's, DB's or such Facing Agent's record of the time of telephonic notice. 2.6 Conversion or Continuation. Any Borrower may elect (i) on any Business Day to convert Base Rate Loans or any portion thereof to Eurocurrency Loans, (ii) at the end of any Interest Period with respect thereto, to convert Loans denominated in Dollars that are Eurocurrency Loans or any portion thereof into Base Rate Loans or to continue such Eurocurrency Loans or any portion thereof for an additional Interest Period and (iii) at the end of any Interest Period with respect thereto, to continue Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency for an additional Interest Period; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the Eurocurrency Loans for each Interest Period therefor must be in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Minimum Borrowing Amount for Eurocurrency Loans or Minimum Borrowing Multiples in excess thereof. Each continuation of Loans shall be allocated among the Loans in the applicable Facility of the applicable Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares. Each such election shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit 2.6 hereto (a "Notice of Conversion or Continuation") and shall be made by giving Administrative Agent at least three Business Days' (or one Business Day in the case of a conversion into Base Rate Loans or three Business Days' in the case of continuation of a Loan denominated in Euros) prior written notice thereof to the Notice Address given not later than 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) specifying (i) the amount and type of conversion or continuation, (ii) in the case of a conversion to or a continuation of Eurocurrency Loans, the Interest Period therefor and (iii) in the case of a conversion, the date of conversion (which date shall be a Business Day). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no conversion in whole or in part of Base Rate Loans to Eurocurrency Loans, and no continuation in whole or in part of Eurocurrency Loans (other than Alternative Currency Loans), shall be permitted at any time at which an Unmatured Event of Default or an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. The applicable Borrower shall not be entitled to specify an Interest Period in excess of 30 days, for any Alternative Currency Loan if an Unmatured Event of Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. If, within the time period required under the terms of this Section 2.6, Administrative Agent does not receive a Notice of Conversion or Continuation from the applicable Borrower containing a permitted election to continue any Eurocurrency Loans for an additional Interest Period or to convert any such Loans, then, upon the expiration of the Interest Period therefor, such Loans will be automatically converted to Base Rate Loans or, in the case of an Alternative Currency Loan, Eurocurrency Loans in the same Applicable Currency with an Interest Period of one month. Each Notice of Conversion or Continuation shall be irrevocable. 2.7 Disbursement of Funds. No later than 12:00 p.m. (local time at the place the applicable Borrower receives funding) on the date specified in each Notice of Borrowing (3:30 p.m. local time at the place of funding in the case of Swing Line Loans), each Lender will make available its Pro Rata Share of Loans of the Borrowing requested to be made on such date in the Applicable Currency and in immediately available funds, at the Payment Office (for the account of such non-U.S. office of Administrative Agent as Administrative Agent may direct in the case of Eurocurrency Loans) and Administrative Agent will make available to the applicable Borrower at its Payment Office the aggregate of the amounts so made available by the Lenders not later than 2:00 p.m. (local time in the place of payment), or in the case of Swing Line Loans, 3:30 p.m. (local time in the place of payment). Unless Administrative Agent shall have been notified by any Lender at least one Business Day prior to the date of Borrowing that such Lender does not intend to make available to Administrative Agent such Lender's portion of the Borrowing to be made on such date, Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such amount available to Administrative Agent on such date of Borrowing and Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. If such corresponding amount is not in fact made available to Administrative Agent by such Lender on the date of Borrowing, Administrative Agent shall be entitled to recover such corresponding amount on demand from such Lender. If such Lender does not pay such corresponding amount forthwith upon Administrative Agent's demand therefor, Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the applicable Borrower and, if so notified, the applicable Borrower shall immediately pay such corresponding amount to Administrative Agent. Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover from the applicable Borrower interest on such corresponding amount in respect of each day from the date such corresponding amount was made available by Administrative Agent to such Borrower to the date such corresponding amount is recovered by Administrative Agent, at a rate per annum equal to the rate for Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Loans, as the case may be, applicable during the period in question; provided, however, that any interest paid to Administrative Agent in respect of such corresponding amount shall be credited against interest payable by such Borrower to such Lender under Section 3.1 in respect of such corresponding amount. Any amount due hereunder to Administrative Agent from any Lender which is not paid when due shall bear interest payable by such Lender, from the date due until the date paid, at the Federal Funds Rate for amounts in Dollars (and, at Administrative Agent's cost of funds for amounts in any Alternative Currency) for the first three days after the date such amount is due and thereafter at the Federal Funds Rate (or such cost of funds rate) plus 1%, together with Administrative Agent's standard interbank processing fee. Further, such Lender shall be deemed to have assigned any and all payments made of principal and interest on its Loans, amounts due with respect to its Letters of Credit (or its participations therein) and any other amounts due to it hereunder first to Administrative Agent to fund any outstanding Loans made available on behalf of such Lender by Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 2.7 until such Loans have been funded (as a result of such assignment or otherwise) and then to fund Loans of all Lenders other than such Lender until each Lender has outstanding Loans equal to its Pro Rata Share of all Loans (as a result of such assignment or otherwise). Such Lender shall not have recourse against any Borrower with respect to any amounts paid to Administrative Agent or any Lender with respect to the preceding sentence, provided that, such Lender shall have full recourse against Borrowers to the extent of the amount of such Loans it has so been deemed to have made. Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitment hereunder or to prejudice any rights which any Borrower may have against the Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder. 2.8 Utilization of Multicurrency Revolving Commitments in an Alternative Currency. (a) Administrative Agent will determine the Dollar Equivalent amount with respect to any (i) Borrowing of Multicurrency Revolving Loans comprised of Alternative Currency Loans as of the requested date of Borrowing, (ii) outstanding Alternative Currency Loans that are Multicurrency Revolving Loans as of the last Business Day of each month and (iii) outstanding Alternative Currency Loans on the date of any prepayment pursuant to Section 4.3 or 4.4 (each such date under clauses (i) through (ii) a "Computation Date"). Upon receipt of any Notice of Borrowing of Multicurrency Revolving Loans, Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Multicurrency Revolving Lender thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Borrowing. In the case of a Borrowing comprised of Alternative Currency Loans, such notice will provide the approximate amount of each Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Borrowing, and Administrative Agent will, upon the determination of the Dollar Equivalent amount of the Borrowing as specified in the Notice of Borrowing, promptly notify each Lender of the exact amount of such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Borrowing. (b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, during the existence of an Event of Default, upon the request of the Majority Lenders, all or any part of any outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans that are Alternative Currency Loans shall be redenominated and converted into Base Rate Loans in Dollars with effect from the last day of the Interest Period with respect to any such Alternative Currency Loans. Administrative Agent will promptly notify the applicable Borrower of any such redenomination and conversion request. 2.9 Additional Facility. (a) Borrowers shall have the right at any time (so long as (x) no Unmatured Event of Default or Event of Default then exists and (y) Borrowers shall have delivered to Administrative Agent a Compliance Certificate for the period of four full Fiscal Quarters immediately preceding the incurrence described below (prepared in good faith and in a manner and using such methodology which is consistent with the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 7.1) giving pro forma effect to such incurrence and evidencing compliance with the covenants set forth in Article IX and a pro forma Senior Secured Leverage Ratio of not more than 2.25:1.0 as of the last day of such period), and from time to time after the Syndication Date to incur from one or more existing Lenders and/or other Persons that are Eligible Assignees and which, in each case, agree to make such loans to the applicable Borrower, loans and commitments to make loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $300,000,000 (or the Dollar Equivalent thereof at the time of funding), which loans may be incurred as one or more tranches of additional term loans (the "Additional Term Loans") as determined by Administrative Agent that are pari passu in all respects to the Term Loans made pursuant to Section 2.1(a) under a facility that would provide that the Additional Term Loans would have a Weighted Average Life to Maturity of not less than the Term Loan with the then longest Weighted Average Life to Maturity and a final maturity no earlier than latest Term Maturity Date; provided, that (i) the terms and conditions of any Additional Term Loans shall be substantially similar to those applicable to the existing Term Loan Facilities and (ii) the applicable margins (which, for such purposes only, shall be deemed to include all upfront or similar fees or original issue discount (amortized over the life of such loan) payable to all Lenders providing such Additional Term Loans, but exclusive of any arrangement, structuring or other fees payable in connection therewith that are not shared with all Lenders providing such Additional Term Loans) determined as of the initial funding date for such Additional Term Loans shall not be greater than 0.50% above the applicable margins then in effect for Term B Dollar Loans or Term B Euro Loans, as applicable based on the currency of the Additional Term Loan (which, for such purposes only, shall be deemed to include all upfront or similar fees or original issue discount (amortized over the life of such loan) paid to all Term B Dollar Lenders or Term B Euro Lenders, as applicable based on the currency of the Additional Term Loans as of the initial funding date for such Additional Term Loans, but exclusive of any arrangement, structuring or other fees payable in connection therewith that are not shared with all Term B Dollar Lenders). (b) In the event that any Borrower desires to incur Additional Term Loans, such Borrower will enter into an amendment with the lenders (who shall by execution thereof become Lenders hereunder if not theretofore Lenders) to provide for such Additional Term Loans, which amendment shall set forth any terms and conditions of the Additional Term Loans not covered by this Agreement as agreed by the applicable Borrower and such Lenders, and shall provide for the issuance of promissory notes to evidence the Additional Term Loans if requested by the lenders advancing Additional Term Loans (which notes shall constitute Term Notes for purposes of this Agreement), with such amendment to be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent and consistent with the terms of this Section 2.9(b) and of the other provisions of this Agreement. No consent of any Lender (other than any Lender making Additional Term Loans) is required to permit the Loans contemplated by this Section 2.9(b) or the aforesaid amendment to effectuate the Additional Term Loans. This section shall supercede any provisions contained in this Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 12.1, to the contrary. 2.10 Letters of Credit. (a) Letters of Credit Commitments. Subject to and upon the terms and conditions herein set forth, Company may request, on behalf of itself, European Holdco or any Subsidiary Borrower, that any Facing Agent issue, at any time and from time to time on and after the Initial Borrowing Date, and prior to the 30th Business Day preceding the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date, for the account of such Borrower and for the benefit of any holder (or any trustee, agent or other similar representative for any such holder) of LC Supportable Indebtedness of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, an irrevocable standby letter of credit, in a form customarily used by such Facing Agent, or in such other form as has been approved by such Facing Agent (each such standby letter of credit, a "Letter of Credit") in support of such LC Supportable Indebtedness, provided, however, no Letter of Credit shall be issued the Stated Amount of which, (1) when added to the LC Obligations (exclusive of Unpaid Drawings relating to Letters of Credit which are repaid on or prior to the date of, and prior to the issuance of, the respective Letter of Credit) at such time, would exceed either (x) the Dollar Equivalent of $150,000,000 or (y) when added to the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of all Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Swing Line Loans, then outstanding with respect to all Borrowers, the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments at such time or (2) when added to the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of all Multicurrency Revolving Loans, LC Obligations and Swing Line Loans of such Borrower, such Borrower's Available Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit. (b) Obligation of Facing Agent to Issue Letter of Credit. Each Facing Agent may agree, in its sole discretion, that it will (subject to the terms and conditions contained herein), at any time and from time to time on or after the Initial Borrowing Date and prior to the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date, following its receipt of the respective Letter of Credit Request, issue for the account of Company, European Holdco or any Subsidiary Borrower one or more Letters of Credit in support of such LC Supportable Indebtedness of any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as is permitted to remain outstanding without giving rise to an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default hereunder, provided that, the respective Facing Agent shall be under no obligation to issue any Letter of Credit of the types described above if at the time of such issuance: (i) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall purport by its terms to enjoin or restrain such Facing Agent from issuing such Letter of Credit or any Requirement of Law applicable to such Facing Agent from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such Facing Agent shall prohibit, or request that such Facing Agent refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such Facing Agent with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction or reserve or capital requirement (for which such Facing Agent is not otherwise compensated) not in effect on the date hereof, or any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable, in effect or known to such Facing Agent as of the date hereof and which such Facing Agent in good faith deems material to it; or (ii) such Facing Agent shall have received notice from any Lender prior to the issuance of such Letter of Credit of the type described in Section 2.10(b)(ii)(A)(v). (A) Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) except as set forth on Schedule 2.10(j), each Letter of Credit shall have an expiry date occurring not later than one year after such Letter of Credit's date of issuance, provided that, any Letter of Credit may be automatically extendable for periods of up to one year so long as such Letter of Credit provides that the respective Facing Agent retains an option satisfactory to such Facing Agent, to terminate such Letter of Credit within a specified period of time prior to each scheduled extension date; (ii) no Letter of Credit shall have an expiry date occurring later than the 10th Business Day prior to the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date; (iii) each Letter of Credit shall be denominated in Dollars or, in the respective Facing Agent's sole discretion, Alternative Currency and be payable on a sight basis; (iv) the Stated Amount of each Letter of Credit shall not be less than the Dollar Equivalent of $100,000 or such lesser amount as is acceptable to the respective Facing Agent; and (v) no Facing Agent will issue any Letter of Credit after it has received written notice from the applicable Borrower or the Required Lenders stating that an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists until such time as such Facing Agent shall have received a written notice of (x) rescission of such notice from the party or parties originally delivering the same or (y) a waiver of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default by the Required Lenders (or all the Lenders to the extent required by Section 12.1). (B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a Lender Default exists, no Facing Agent shall be required to issue any Letter of Credit unless the respective Facing Agent has entered into arrangements satisfactory to it and the applicable Borrower to eliminate such Facing Agent's risk with respect to the participation in Letters of Credit of the Defaulting Lender or Lenders, including by cash collateralizing such Defaulting Lender or Lenders' applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the applicable LC Obligations. (c) Letter of Credit Requests; Notices of Issuance. Whenever Company, European Holdco or any Subsidiary Borrower desires that a Letter of Credit be issued, Company shall give Administrative Agent and the respective Facing Agent written notice thereof prior to 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) at least five Business Days (or such shorter period as may be acceptable to such Facing Agent) prior to the proposed date of issuance (which shall be a Business Day) which written notice shall be in the form of Exhibit 2.10(c) (each a "Letter of Credit Request") and may be submitted via facsimile to the respective Facing Agent (who may rely upon such facsimile if it were an original thereof). Each such notice shall specify (A) the proposed issuance date and expiration date, (B) the name(s) of each obligor with respect to such Letter of Credit, (C) the applicable Borrower as the account party, (D) the name and address of the beneficiary (which Person shall be acceptable to the respective Facing Agent), (E) the Stated Amount in Dollars or the Alternative Currency of such proposed Letter of Credit and (F) the purpose of such Letter of Credit (which shall be acceptable to Agent and the respective Facing Agent) and such other information as such Facing Agent may reasonably request. In addition, each Letter of Credit Request shall contain a general description of the terms and conditions to be included in such proposed Letter of Credit (all of which terms and conditions shall be acceptable to the respective Facing Agent). Unless otherwise specified, all Letters of Credit will be governed by the Uniform Customs and Practices for Documentary Credit Operations as in effect on the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit. Each Letter of Credit Request shall include any other documents as the respective Facing Agent customarily requires in connection therewith. Each Facing Agent shall, promptly after the issuance of or amendment or modification to a Letter of Credit, give Administrative Agent and the applicable Borrower written notice of the issuance, amendment or modification of such Letter of Credit, accompanied by a copy of such issuance, amendment or modification. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, Administrative Agent shall give each Multicurrency Revolving Lender written notice of such issuance, amendment or modification, and if so requested by any Multicurrency Revolving Lender, Administrative Agent shall provide such Multicurrency Revolving Lender with copies of such issuance, amendment or modification. (d) Agreement to Repay Letter of Credit Payments. (i) Company hereby agrees to reimburse (or cause the applicable Borrower to reimburse) the respective Facing Agent, by making payment to Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in Dollars at the Payment Office, for any payment or disbursement made by such Facing Agent under and in accordance with any Letter of Credit (each such amount so paid or disbursed until reimbursed, an "Unpaid Drawing"), no later than one Business Day after the date on which Company receives notice of such payment or disbursement (if such Unpaid Drawing was in an Alternative Currency, then in the Dollar Equivalent amount of such Unpaid Drawing), with interest on the amount so paid or disbursed by such Facing Agent, to the extent not reimbursed prior to 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the date of such payment or disbursement, from and including the date paid or disbursed to but excluding the date such Facing Agent is reimbursed therefor by Company at a rate per annum which shall be the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Base Rate Margin; provided, however, that, anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) unless Company shall have notified Administrative Agent and the applicable Facing Agent prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day following receipt of such notice that the applicable Facing Agent will be reimbursed for the amount of such Unpaid Drawing with funds other than the proceeds of Multicurrency Revolving Loans, Company shall be deemed to have timely given a Notice of Borrowing to Administrative Agent requesting each Multicurrency Revolving Lender to make Multicurrency Revolving Loans which are Base Rate Loans on the date on which such Unpaid Drawing is honored in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of such Unpaid Drawing and Administrative Agent shall, if such Notice of Borrowing is deemed given, promptly notify the Lenders thereof and (ii) unless any of the events described in Section 10.1(e) or 10.1(f) shall have occurred (in which event the procedures of Section 2.10(e) shall apply), each such Multicurrency Revolving Lender shall, on the date such drawing is honored, make Multicurrency Revolving Loans which are Base Rate Loans in the amount of its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Dollar Equivalent of such Unpaid Drawing, the proceeds of which shall be applied directly by Administrative Agent to reimburse the applicable Facing Agent for the amount of such Unpaid Drawing; and provided, further, that, if for any reason, proceeds of Multicurrency Revolving Loans are not received by the applicable Facing Agent on such date in an amount equal to the amount of the Dollar Equivalent of such drawing, the applicable Borrower shall reimburse the applicable Facing Agent, on the Business Day immediately following the date such drawing is honored, in an amount in same day funds equal to the excess of the amount of the Dollar Equivalent of such drawing over the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of such Multicurrency Revolving Loans, if any, which are so received, plus accrued interest on such amount at the rate set forth in Section 3.1(a); provided, however, to the extent such amounts are not reimbursed prior to 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day following such payment or disbursement, interest shall thereafter accrue on the amounts so paid or disbursed by such Facing Agent (and until reimbursed by Company) at a rate per annum which shall be the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Base Rate Margin plus an additional 2% per annum, such interest also to be payable on demand. The respective Facing Agent shall give Company prompt notice of each Drawing under any Letter of Credit, provided that, the failure to give any such notice shall in no way affect, impair or diminish Company's obligations hereunder. (ii) The Obligations of Company under this Section 2.10(d) to reimburse the respective Facing Agent with respect to drawings on Letters of Credit (each, a "Drawing") (including, in each case, interest thereon) shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment which any Borrower may have or have had against any Facing Agent, Agent or any Lender (including in its capacity as issuer of the Letter of Credit or as LC Participant), or any non-application or misapplication by the beneficiary of the proceeds of such Drawing, the respective Facing Agent's only obligation to Borrowers being to confirm that any documents required to be delivered under such Letter of Credit appear to have been delivered and that they appear to comply on their face with the requirements of such Letter of Credit. Any action taken or omitted to be taken by any Facing Agent under or in connection with any Letter of Credit if taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a final and non-appealable judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall not create for such Facing Agent any resulting liability to any Borrower. (e) Letter of Credit Participations. (i) Immediately upon the issuance by any Facing Agent of any Letter of Credit, such Facing Agent shall be deemed to have sold and transferred to each Multicurrency Revolving Lender, other than such Facing Agent (each such Lender, in its capacity under this Section 2.10(e), a "LC Participant"), and each such LC Participant shall be deemed irrevocably and unconditionally to have purchased and received from such Facing Agent, without recourse or warranty, an undivided interest and participation, to the extent of such Multicurrency Revolving Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share, in such Letter of Credit, each substitute Letter of Credit, each Drawing made thereunder and the obligations of Borrowers under this Agreement with respect thereto (although Letter of Credit fees shall be payable directly to Administrative Agent for the account of the LC Participant as provided in Section 2.10(g) and the LC Participants shall have no right to receive any portion of the facing fees), and any security therefor or guaranty pertaining thereto. Upon any change in the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments of the Multicurrency Revolving Lenders, it is hereby agreed that, with respect to all outstanding Letters of Credit and Unpaid Drawings relating to Letters of Credit, there shall be an automatic adjustment pursuant to this Section 2.10(e) to reflect the new Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the assignor and assignee Lender or of all Lenders with Multicurrency Revolving Commitments, as the case may be. (ii) In determining whether to pay under any Letter of Credit, such Facing Agent shall have no obligation relative to the LC Participants other than to confirm that any documents required to be delivered under such Letter of Credit appear to have been delivered and that they appear to comply on their face with the requirements of such Letter of Credit. Any action taken or omitted to be taken by any Facing Agent under or in connection with any Letter of Credit issued by it if taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a final and non-appealable judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall not create for such Facing Agent any resulting liability to any Borrower or any Lender. (f) Draws Upon Letter of Credit; Reimbursement Obligations. (i) In the event that any Facing Agent makes any payment under any Letter of Credit issued by it and Company shall not have reimbursed such amount in full to such Facing Agent pursuant to Section 2.10(d), such Facing Agent shall promptly notify Administrative Agent, and Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each LC Participant of such failure, and each such LC Participant shall promptly and unconditionally pay to Administrative Agent for the account of such Facing Agent, the amount of such LC Participant's applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of such payment in Dollars or, if in an Alternative Currency, in such Alternative Currency and in same day funds; provided, however, that no LC Participant shall be obligated to pay to Administrative Agent its applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of such unreimbursed amount for any wrongful payment made by such Facing Agent under a Letter of Credit issued by it as a result of acts or omissions constituting willful misconduct or gross negligence as determined by a final and non-appealable judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction on the part of such Facing Agent. If Administrative Agent so notifies any LC Participant required to fund a payment under a Letter of Credit prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) or, in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, 11:00 a.m. (London time), on any Business Day, such LC Participant shall make available to Administrative Agent for the account of the respective Facing Agent such LC Participant's applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the amount of such payment on such Business Day in same day funds. If and to the extent such LC Participant shall not have so made its applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the amount of such payment available to Administrative Agent for the account of the respective Facing Agent, such LC Participant agrees to pay to Administrative Agent for the account of such Facing Agent, forthwith on demand such amount, together with interest thereon, for each day from such date until the date such amount is paid to Administrative Agent for the account of such Facing Agent at the overnight Federal Funds rate. The failure of any LC Participant to make available to Administrative Agent for the account of the respective Facing Agent its applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of any payment under any Letter of Credit issued by it shall not relieve any other LC Participant of its obligation hereunder to make available to Administrative Agent for the account of such Facing Agent its applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of any payment under any such Letter of Credit on the day required, as specified above, but no LC Participant shall be responsible for the failure of any other LC Participant to make available to Agent for the account of such Facing Agent such other LC Participant's applicable Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of any such payment. (ii) Whenever any Facing Agent receives a payment of a reimbursement obligation as to which Administrative Agent has received for the account of such Facing Agent any payments from the LC Participants pursuant to this Section 2.10(f), such Facing Agent shall pay to Administrative Agent and Administrative Agent shall pay to each LC Participant which has paid its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share thereof, in Dollars or, if in an Alternative Currency, in such Alternative Currency and in same day funds, an amount equal to such LC Participant's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the principal amount of such reimbursement obligation and interest thereon accruing after the purchase of the respective participations. (iii) The obligations of the LC Participants to make payments to each Facing Agent with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it shall be irrevocable and not subject to any qualification or exception whatsoever and shall be made in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement under all circumstances, including, without limitation, any of the following circumstances: (A) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents; (B) The existence of any claim, setoff, defense or other right which any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may have at any time against a beneficiary named in a Letter of Credit, any transferee of any Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such transferee may be acting), Administrative Agent, any LC Participant, or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, the transactions contemplated herein or any unrelated transactions (including any underlying transaction between any Borrower and the beneficiary named in any such Letter of Credit); (C) any draft, certificate or any other document presented under any Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect to any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; (D) the surrender or impairment of any security for the performance or observance of any of the terms of any of the Loan Documents; or (E) the occurrence or continuance of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default. (g) Fees for Letters of Credit. (i) Facing Agent Fees. Company agrees to pay (or to cause the applicable Borrower to pay) in Dollars the following amount to the respective Facing Agent with respect to the Letters of Credit issued by it for the account of any Borrower: (A) with respect to payments made under any Letter of Credit, interest, payable on demand, on the amount paid by such Facing Agent in respect of each such payment from the date of the payments through the date such amount is reimbursed by Company (including any such reimbursement out of the proceeds of Multicurrency Revolving Loans at a rate determined in accordance with the terms of Section 2.10(d)(i)); (B) with respect to the issuance or amendment of each Letter of Credit and each payment made thereunder, documentary and processing charges in accordance with such Facing Agent's standard schedule for such charges in effect at the time of such issuance, amendment, transfer or payment, as the case may be; and (C) a facing fee equal to one-eighth of 1% per annum of the Stated Amount of outstanding and undrawn LC Obligations payable in arrears on each Quarterly Payment Date and on the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date and thereafter, on demand together with customary issuance and payment charges, provided that, a minimum fee of $500.00 per annum shall be payable per Letter of Credit. (ii) Participating Lender Fees. Company agrees to pay in Dollars to Administrative Agent for distribution to each participating Lender in respect of all Letters of Credit outstanding such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of a commission equal to the then Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Multicurrency Revolving Loans with respect to the Effective Amount of such outstanding Letters of Credit (the "LC Commission"), payable in arrears on and through each Quarterly Payment Date, on the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date and thereafter, on demand. The LC Commission shall be computed on a daily basis from the first day of issuance of each Letter of Credit and on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days. Promptly upon receipt by the respective Facing Agent or Administrative Agent of any amount described in clause (i)(A) or (ii) of this Section 2.10(g), such Facing Agent or Administrative Agent shall distribute to each Lender that has reimbursed such Facing Agent in accordance with Section 2.10(d) its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of such amount. Amounts payable under clause (i)(B) and (C) of this Section 2.10(e) shall be paid directly to such Facing Agent. (h) Indemnification. In addition to amounts payable as elsewhere provided in this Agreement, Company hereby agrees to protect, indemnify, pay and hold each Facing Agent harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liabilities, damages, losses, costs, charges and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) (other than for Taxes, which shall be covered by Section 4.7, and Excluded Taxes) which any Facing Agent may incur or be subject to as a consequence, direct or indirect, of (i) the issuance of the Letters of Credit, other than as a result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a final and non-appealable judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction with respect to such Facing Agent or (ii) the failure of any Facing Agent to honor a Drawing under any Letter of Credit as a result of any act or omission, whether rightful or wrongful, of any present or future de jure or de facto government or Governmental Authority (all such acts or omissions herein called "Government Acts"). As between Borrowers and each Facing Agent, Borrowers assume all risks of the acts and omissions of, or misuse of the Letters of Credit issued by any Facing Agent by, the respective beneficiaries of such Letters of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, each Facing Agent shall not be responsible: (i) for the form, validity, sufficiency, accuracy, genuineness or legal effect of any document submitted by any party in connection with the application for and issuance of or any Drawing under such Letters of Credit, even if it should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, inaccurate, fraudulent or forged; (ii) for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign any such Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason; (iii) for failure of the beneficiary of any such Letter of Credit to comply fully with conditions required in order to draw upon such Letter of Credit; (iv) for errors, omissions, interruptions or delays in transmission or delivery of any messages, by mail, cable, telegraph, telex or otherwise, whether or not they be in cipher; (v) for errors in interpretation of technical terms; (vi) for any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a Drawing under any such Letter of Credit or of the proceeds thereof; (vii) for the misapplication by the beneficiary of any such Letter of Credit of the proceeds of any Drawing under such Letter of Credit; and (viii) for any consequences arising from causes beyond the control of each Facing Agent, including, without limitation, any acts of Government Authority. None of the above shall affect, impair, or prevent the vesting of any of each Facing Agent's rights or powers hereunder. In furtherance and extension and not in limitation of the specific provisions hereinabove set forth, any action taken or omitted by any Facing Agent under or in connection with the Letters of Credit issued by it or the related certificates, if taken or omitted in good faith and in the absence of gross negligence and willful misconduct as determined by a final and non-appealable judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall not put any Facing Agent under any resulting liability to any Borrower. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, no Borrower shall have any obligation to indemnify any Facing Agent in respect of any liability incurred by such Facing Agent to the extent arising out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Facing Agent. The right of indemnification in the first paragraph of this Section 2.10(h) shall not prejudice any rights that any Borrower may otherwise have against each Facing Agent with respect to a Letter of Credit issued hereunder. (i) Increased Costs. If at any time after the date hereof the introduction of or any change in any applicable law, rule, regulation, order, guideline or request (other than any law, rule, regulation, guidelines or request relating to Excluded Taxes) or in the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by each Facing Agent or such Lender with any request or directive by any such authority (whether or not having the force of law or any change in GAAP), shall either (i) impose, modify or make applicable any reserve, deposit, capital adequacy or similar requirement against letters of credit issued by any Facing Agent or participated in by any Lender, or (ii) impose on any Facing Agent or any Lender any other conditions relating, directly or indirectly, to this Agreement or any Letter of Credit; and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to any Facing Agent or any Lender of issuing, maintaining or participating in any Letter of Credit, or reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Facing Agent or any Lender hereunder or reduce the rate of return on its capital with respect to Letters of Credit, then, upon demand to Company by the respective Facing Agent or any Lender (a copy of which demand shall be sent by such Facing Agent or such Lender to Administrative Agent), Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Borrower to pay) to such Facing Agent or such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction in the amount receivable or reduction on the rate of return on its capital. Each Facing Agent or any Lender, upon determining that any additional amounts will be payable pursuant to this Section 2.10(i), will give prompt written notice thereof to Company, which notice shall include a certificate submitted to Company by the respective Facing Agent or such Lender (a copy of which certificate shall be sent by such Facing Agent or such Lender to Administrative Agent), setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for the calculation of such additional amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Facing Agent or such Lender, although failure to give any such notice shall not release or diminish Company's obligations to pay additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.10(i). The certificate required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 2.10(i) shall, absent manifest error, be final, conclusive and binding on Company. (j) Outstanding Letters of Credit. The letters of credit set forth under the caption "Letters of Credit outstanding on the Effective Date" on Schedule 2.10(j) annexed hereto and made a part hereof which were issued pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement and remain outstanding as of the Initial Borrowing Date (the "Outstanding Letters of Credit"). Company, each Facing Agent and each of the Lenders hereby agree with respect to the Outstanding Letters of Credit that such Outstanding Letters of Credit, for all purposes under this Agreement shall be deemed to be Letters of Credit governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees to participate in each Outstanding Letter of Credit issued by any Facing Agent in an amount equal to its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Stated Amount of such Outstanding Letter of Credit. 2.11 Pro Rata Borrowings. Except as expressly provided in Section 2A.9(e), Borrowings of Loans under this Agreement shall be loaned by the applicable Lenders pro rata on the basis of their Commitments. No Lender shall be responsible for any default by any other Lender in its obligation to make Loans hereunder and each Lender shall be obligated to make the Loans provided to be made by it hereunder, regardless of the failure of any other Lender to fulfill its Commitments hereunder. ARTICLE IIA CANADIAN REVOLVER 2A.1 The Canadian Revolving Commitments. Each Canadian Revolving Lender, severally and for itself alone, hereby agrees, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, to make loans to Canadian Borrower on a revolving basis, including by means of B/As or B/A Equivalent Loans, from time to time during the Canadian Commitment Period in an amount not to exceed its Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Total Available Canadian Revolving Commitment (each such loan by any Lender, a "Canadian Revolving Loan" and collectively, the "Canadian Revolving Loans"). The Canadian Revolving Loans (i) shall be denominated in Canadian Dollars and (ii) if made on the Initial Borrowing Date, shall be made as Canadian Prime Rate Loans. Except as hereinafter provided, Canadian Revolving Loans may, at the option of Canadian Borrower, be maintained as and/or converted into Canadian Prime Rate Loans or B/A Loans. All Canadian Revolving Loans comprising the same Borrowing hereunder shall be made by the Canadian Revolving Lenders simultaneously and in proportion to their respective Canadian Revolving Commitments. Prior to the Canadian Revolver Termination Date, Canadian Revolving Loans may be repaid and reborrowed by Canadian Borrower in accordance with the provisions hereof and, except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all Canadian Revolving Loans comprising the same Borrowing shall at all times be of the same Type. As the context may require, references to the outstanding principal amount of any Canadian Revolving Loan shall include the face amount of B/A Loans. 2A.2 Notes. (a) Evidence of Indebtedness. At the request of any Canadian Revolving Lender, Canadian Borrower's obligation to pay the principal of and interest on all the Loans (other than B/As) made to it by each Lender shall be evidenced by a promissory note (each, a "Canadian Revolving Note" and, collectively, the "Canadian Revolving Notes") duly executed and delivered by Canadian Borrower substantially in the form of Exhibit 2A.2(a) hereto, with blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith. (b) Notation of Payments. Each Canadian Revolving Lender will note on its internal records the amount of each Canadian Revolving Loan made by it and each payment in respect thereof and will, prior to any transfer of its Canadian Revolving Note in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, endorse on the reverse side thereof the outstanding principal amount of Canadian Revolving Loans evidenced thereby. Failure to make any such notation shall not affect Canadian Borrower's or any guarantor's obligations hereunder or under the other applicable Loan Documents in respect of such Canadian Revolving Loans. 2A.3 Minimum Amount of Each Borrowing; Maximum Number of Borrowings. The aggregate principal amount of each Borrowing by Canadian Borrower hereunder shall be not less than the Minimum Borrowing Amount and, if greater, shall be in integral multiples of Cdn.$1,000,000 above such minimum (or, if less, the then Total Available Canadian Revolving Commitment). More than one Borrowing may be incurred on any date. 2A.4 Borrowing Options. The Canadian Revolving Loans shall, at the option of Canadian Borrower except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, be (i) Canadian Prime Rate Loans, (ii) B/A Loans, or (iii) part Canadian Prime Rate Loans and part B/A Loans, provided that, (x) all Canadian Revolving Loans made by the Canadian Revolving Lenders pursuant to the same Borrowing shall, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, consist entirely of Canadian Revolving Loans of the same Type and (y) except as permitted by Canadian Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, no incurrences of, or conversions into B/A Loans may be effected prior to the earlier of (1) the 60th day after the Initial Borrowing Date and (2) the Syndication Date. 2A.5 Notice of Canadian Borrowing. Whenever Canadian Borrower desires to make a Borrowing of any Canadian Revolving Loan hereunder, Canadian Borrower shall give Canadian Administrative Agent at its office located at 222 Bay Street, Suite 1100, P.O. Box 64, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5K1E7 or such other address as Canadian Administrative Agent may hereafter designate in writing to the parties hereto) (the "Canadian Notice Address") at least one Business Day's (two Business Days' in the case of B/A Loans) prior written notice (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing), given not later than 12:00 p.m. (New York City time) of each B/A Loan or Canadian Prime Rate Loan; provided, however, that a Notice of Canadian Borrowing with respect to Borrowings to be made on the date hereof may, at the discretion of Canadian Administrative Agent, be delivered later than the time specified above. Each such notice (each a "Notice of Canadian Borrowing"), which shall be in the form of Exhibit 2A.5 hereto, shall be irrevocable, shall be deemed a representation by Canadian Borrower that all conditions precedent to such Borrowing have been satisfied and shall specify (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Loans (or the face amount of the B/A Loans, as the case may be) to be made pursuant to such Borrowing, (ii) the date of Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), and (iii) whether the Loans being made pursuant to such Borrowing are to be Canadian Prime Rate Loans or B/A Loans and with respect to B/A Loans the Contract Period and maturity date to be applicable thereto. Canadian Administrative Agent shall as promptly as practicable give each Canadian Revolving Lender written or telephonic notice (promptly confirmed in writing) of each proposed Borrowing, of such Canadian Revolving Lender's Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share thereof and of the other matters covered by the Notice of Canadian Borrowing. Without in any way limiting Company's and Canadian Borrower's obligation to confirm in writing any telephonic notice, Canadian Administrative Agent may act without liability upon the basis of telephonic notice believed by Canadian Administrative Agent in good faith to be from a Responsible Officer of Canadian Borrower prior to receipt of written confirmation. Canadian Administrative Agent's records shall, absent manifest error, be final, conclusive and binding on Canadian Borrower with respect to evidence of the terms of such telephonic Notice of Canadian Borrowing. Canadian Borrower hereby agrees not to dispute Canadian Administrative Agent's or DB's record of the time of telephonic notice. 2A.6 Conversion or Continuation. Subject to Section 2A.4, Canadian Borrower may elect (i) on any Business Day to convert Canadian Prime Rate Loans or any portion thereof to B/A Loans and (ii) at the end of any Contract Period with respect thereto, to convert B/A Loans or any portion thereof into Canadian Prime Rate Loans or continue such B/A Loans or any portion thereof for an additional Contract Period; provided, however, that the aggregate face amount of the B/A Loans for each Contract Period therefor must be in an aggregate principal amount of Cdn.$5,000,000 or an integral multiple of Cdn.$1,000,000 in excess thereto. Each such election shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit 2A.6 hereto (a "Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation") and shall be made by giving Canadian Administrative Agent at least two Business Days' prior written notice thereof to the Canadian Notice Address given not later than 12:00 p.m. (New York City time), specifying (i) the amount and type of conversion or continuation, (ii) in the case of a conversion to or a continuation of B/A Loans, the Contract Period therefor, and (iii) in the case of a conversion, the date of conversion (which date shall be a Business Day). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no conversion in whole or in part of Canadian Prime Rate Loans to B/A Loans, and no continuation in whole or in part of B/A Loans upon the expiration of the Contract Period therefor, shall be permitted at any time at which an Unmatured Event of Default or an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. If, within the time period required under the terms of this Section 2A.6, Canadian Administrative Agent does not receive a Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation from Canadian Borrower containing a permitted election to continue any B/A Loans for an additional Contract Period or to convert any such Loans, then, upon the expiration of the Contract Period therefor, such Loans will be automatically converted to Canadian Prime Rate Loans. Each Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation shall be irrevocable. 2A.7 Disbursement of Funds. No later than 12:00 p.m. (local time at the place of funding) on the date specified in each Notice of Canadian Borrowing, each Canadian Revolving Lender will make available its Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share of Canadian Revolving Loans of the Borrowing requested to be made on such date in Canadian Dollars and in immediately available funds, at the Canadian Payment Office and Canadian Administrative Agent will make available to Canadian Borrower at its Canadian Payment Office the aggregate of the amounts so made available by the Lenders not later than 2:00 p.m. (local time in the place of payment). Unless Canadian Administrative Agent shall have been notified by any such Lender at least one Business Day prior to the date of Borrowing that such Lender does not intend to make available to Canadian Administrative Agent such Lender's portion of the Borrowing to be made on such date, Canadian Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such amount available to Canadian Administrative Agent on such date of Borrowing and Canadian Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Canadian Borrower a corresponding amount. If such corresponding amount is not in fact made available to Canadian Administrative Agent by such Lender on the date of Borrowing, Canadian Administrative Agent shall be entitled to recover such corresponding amount on demand from such Lender. If such Lender does not pay such corresponding amount forthwith upon Canadian Administrative Agent's demand therefor, Canadian Administrative Agent shall promptly notify Canadian Borrower and, if so notified, Canadian Borrower shall immediately pay such corresponding amount to Canadian Administrative Agent. Canadian Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover from Canadian Borrower interest on such corresponding amount in respect of each day from the date such corresponding amount was made available by Canadian Administrative Agent to Canadian Borrower to the date such corresponding amount is recovered by Canadian Administrative Agent, at a rate per annum equal to the rate for Canadian Prime Rate Loans or B/A Loans, as the case may be, applicable during the period in question; provided, however, that any interest paid to Canadian Administrative Agent in respect of such corresponding amount shall be credited against interest payable by Canadian Borrower to such Lender under Section 3.1 in respect of such corresponding amount. Any amount due hereunder to Canadian Administrative Agent from any Lender which is not paid when due shall bear interest payable by such Lender, from the date due until the date paid, at the average of the rates per annum for Canadian Dollar bankers' acceptances having a term of 30 days that appears on the display referred to as the "CDOR Page" (or any display substituted therefor) of Reuter Monitor Money Rates Service as of 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on the date of determination, as reported by Canadian Administrative Agent (and if such screen is not available, any successor or similar service as may be selected by Canadian Administrative Agent) for the first three days after the date such amount is due and thereafter at the average of the rates per annum for Canadian Dollar bankers' acceptances having a term of 30 days that appears on the display referred to as the "CDOR Page" (or any display substituted therefor) of Reuter Monitor Money Rates Service as of 10:00 a.m. (Toronto time) on the date of determination, as reported by Canadian Administrative Agent (and if such screen is not available, any successor or similar service as may be selected by Canadian Administrative Agent) plus 1%, together with Canadian Administrative Agent's standard interbank processing fee. Further, such Lender shall be deemed to have assigned any and all payments made of principal and interest on its Loans, and any other amounts due to it hereunder first to Canadian Administrative Agent to fund any outstanding Loans made available on behalf of such Lender by Canadian Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 2A.7 until such Loans have been funded (as a result of such assignment or otherwise) and then to fund Loans of all Lenders other than such Lender until each Lender has outstanding Loans equal to its Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share of all Canadian Revolving Loans (as a result of such assignment or otherwise). Such Lender shall not have recourse against Canadian Borrower with respect to any amounts paid to Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender with respect to the preceding sentence, provided that, such Lender shall have full recourse against Canadian Borrower to the extent of the amount of such Loans it has so been deemed to have made. Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Canadian Revolving Commitment hereunder or to prejudice any rights which Canadian Borrower may have against the Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder. 2A.8 Pro Rata Borrowings. Except as expressly provided in Section 2A.9(e), all Borrowings of Canadian Revolving Loans under this Agreement shall be loaned by the Canadian Revolving Lenders pro rata on the basis of their Canadian Revolving Commitments. No Lender shall be responsible for any default by any other Lender in its obligation to make Loans hereunder and each Lender shall be obligated to make the Loans provided to be made by it hereunder, regardless of the failure of any other Lender to fulfill its Canadian Revolving Commitment hereunder. 2A.9 Bankers' Acceptances. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Canadian Borrower may request a Canadian Revolving Loan denominated in Canadian Dollars by presenting drafts for acceptance and, if applicable, purchase as B/A's by the Canadian Revolving Lenders. (b) A Canadian Revolving Lender shall not be obliged to either accept any draft presented for acceptance or advance any B/A Equivalent Loan: (i) which is drawn on, or where the Contract Period applicable thereto expires, on a day which is not a Business Day; (ii) where the Contact Period applicable thereto matures on a day subsequent to the Canadian Revolver Termination Date; (iii) where the Contract Period applicable thereto has a term other than approximately 30, 60, 90 or 180 days; (iv) which is denominated in any currency other than Canadian Dollars; (v) which is not in a form satisfactory to such Canadian Revolving Lender or Canadian Administrative Agent; (vi) in respect of which the Canadian Borrower has not then paid the applicable Acceptance Fee; or (vii) if an Unmatured Event of Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. (c) To facilitate availment of B/A Loans, Canadian Borrower hereby appoints each Canadian Revolving Lender as its attorney to sign and endorse on its behalf (in accordance with a Notice of Canadian Borrowing or Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation relating to a B/A Loan pursuant to Section 2A.5 or Section 2A.6), in handwriting or by facsimile or mechanical signature as and when deemed necessary by such Canadian Revolving Lender, blank drafts in the form requested by such Canadian Revolving Lender. In this respect, it is each Canadian Revolving Lender's responsibility to maintain an adequate supply of blank drafts for acceptance under this Agreement. Canadian Borrower recognizes and agrees that all drafts signed and/or endorsed by a Canadian Revolving Lender on behalf of Canadian Borrower shall bind Canadian Borrower as fully and effectually as if signed in the handwriting of and duly issued by the proper signing officers of Canadian Borrower. Each Canadian Revolving Lender is hereby authorized (in accordance with a Notice of Canadian Borrowing or Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation relating to a B/A Loan) to issue such B/A's endorsed in blank in such face amounts as may be determined by such Canadian Revolving Lender, provided that, the aggregate amount thereof is equal to the aggregate amount of drafts required to be accepted and purchased by such Canadian Revolving Lender. No Canadian Revolving Lender shall be liable for any damage, loss or other claim arising by reason of any loss or improper use of any such instrument except for the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Canadian Revolving Lender or its officers, employees, agents or representatives. Each Canadian Revolving Lender shall maintain a record, which shall be made available to Canadian Borrower upon its request, with respect to drafts (i) received by it in blank hereunder, (ii) voided by it for any reason, (iii) accepted and purchased by it hereunder, and (iv) cancelled at their respective maturities. On request by or on behalf of Canadian Borrower, a Canadian Revolving Lender shall cancel all forms of B/A's which have been pre-signed or pre-endorsed on behalf of Canadian Borrower and that are held by such Canadian Revolving Lender and are not required to be issued in accordance with Canadian Borrower's irrevocable notice. Alternatively, Canadian Borrower agrees that, at the request of Canadian Administrative Agent, Canadian Borrower shall deliver to Canadian Administrative Agent a "depository note" which complies with the requirements of the Depository Bills and Notes Act (Canada), and consents to the deposit of any such depository note in the book-based debt clearance system maintained by the Canadian Depository for Securities. (d) Drafts of Canadian Borrower to be accepted as B/A's hereunder shall be signed as set forth in this Section 2A.9. Notwithstanding that any Person whose signature appears on any B/A may no longer be an authorized signatory for any Canadian Revolving Lender or Canadian Borrower at the date of issuance of a B/A, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes as if such authority had remained in force at the time of such issuance and any such B/A so signed shall be binding on Canadian Borrower. (e) Promptly following the receipt of a Notice of Canadian Borrowing or Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation specifying a Canadian Revolving Loan by way of B/A's, Canadian Administrative Agent shall so advise the Canadian Revolving Lenders and shall advise each Canadian Revolving Lender of the aggregate face amount of the B/A's to be accepted by it and the applicable Contract Period (which shall be identical for all Canadian Revolving Lenders). In the case of Canadian Revolving Loans comprised of B/A Loans, the aggregate face amount of the B/A's to be accepted by a Canadian Revolving Lender shall be in a minimum aggregate amount of Cdn.$500,000 and shall be a whole multiple of Cdn.$100,000, and such face amount shall be in the Canadian Revolving Lenders' pro rata portions of such Canadian Revolving Loan, provided that, Canadian Administrative Agent may in its sole discretion increase or reduce any Canadian Revolving Lender's portion of such B/A Loan to the nearest Cdn.$100,000. (f) Canadian Borrower may specify in a Notice of Canadian Borrowing pursuant to Section 2A.5 or a Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation pursuant to Section 2A.6 that it desires that any B/A's requested by such notice be purchased by the Canadian Revolving Lenders, in which case the Canadian Revolving Lenders shall, upon acceptance of a B/A by a Canadian Revolving Lender, purchase, or arrange for the purchase of, each B/A from Canadian Borrower at the Discount Rate for such Canadian Revolving Lender applicable to such B/A accepted by it and provide to Canadian Administrative Agent the Discount Proceeds for the account of Canadian Borrower. The Acceptance Fee payable by Canadian Borrower to a Canadian Revolving Lender under Section 3.1(d) in respect of each B/A accepted by such Canadian Revolving Lender shall be set off against the Discount Proceeds payable by such Canadian Revolving Lender under this Section 2A.9. (g) Each Canadian Revolving Lender may at any time and from time to time hold, sell, rediscount or otherwise dispose of any or all B/A's accepted and purchased by it. (h) If a Canadian Revolving Lender is not a chartered bank under the Bank Act (Canada) or if a Canadian Revolving Lender notifies Canadian Administrative Agent in writing that it is otherwise unable to accept Bankers' Acceptances, such Canadian Revolving Lender will, instead of accepting and, if applicable, purchasing Bankers' Acceptances, make an advance (a "B/A Equivalent Loan") to Canadian Borrower in the amount and for the same term as the draft that such Canadian Revolving Lender would otherwise have been required to accept and purchase hereunder. Each such Canadian Revolving Lender will provide to Canadian Administrative Agent the Discount Proceeds of such B/A Equivalent Loan for the account of Canadian Borrower. Each such B/A Equivalent Loan will bear interest at the same rate that would result if such Lender had accepted (and been paid an Acceptance Fee) and purchased (on a discounted basis at the Discount Rate) a Bankers' Acceptance for the relevant Contract Period (it being the intention of the parties that each such B/A Equivalent Loan shall have the same economic consequences for the applicable Lenders and Canadian Borrower as the Bankers' Acceptance which such B/A Equivalent Loan replaces). All such interest shall be paid in advance on the date such B/A Equivalent Loan is made, and will be deducted from the principal amount of such B/A Equivalent Loan in the same manner in which the Discount Proceeds of a Bankers' Acceptance would be deducted from the face amount of the Bankers' Acceptance. (i) Canadian Borrower waives presentment for payment and any other defense to payment of any amounts due to a Canadian Revolving Lender in respect of a B/A accepted and purchased by it pursuant to this Agreement which might exist solely by reason of such B/A being held, at the maturity thereof, by such Canadian Revolving Lender in its own right, and Canadian Borrower agrees not to claim any days of grace if such Canadian Revolving Lender, as holder, sues Canadian Borrower on the B/A for payment of the amount payable by Canadian Borrower thereunder. Unless Canadian Borrower has requested and Canadian Revolving Lenders have granted a continuation of such B/A Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, on the last day of the Contract Period of a B/A, or such earlier date as may be required or permitted pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, Canadian Borrower shall pay the Canadian Revolving Lender that has accepted and purchased such B/A the full face amount of such B/A and, after such payment, Canadian Borrower shall have no further liability in respect of such B/A and such Canadian Revolving Lender shall be entitled to all benefits of, and be responsible for all payments due to third parties under, such B/A. (j) Except as required by any Canadian Revolving Lender upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, no B/A Loan may be repaid by Canadian Borrower prior to the expiry date of the Contract Period applicable to such B/A Loan; provided, however, that any B/A Loan may be defeased as provided in the proviso to Section 4.3(d). ARTICLE III INTEREST AND FEES 3.1 Interest. (a) Base Rate Loans. Each Borrower agrees to pay interest in respect of the unpaid principal amount of such Borrower's Base Rate Loans from the date the proceeds thereof are made available to such Borrower (or, if such Base Rate Loan was converted from a Eurocurrency Loan, the date of such conversion) until the earlier of (i) the maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise) of such Base Rate Loan or (ii) the conversion of such Base Rate Loan to a Eurocurrency Loan pursuant to Section 2.6 at a rate per annum equal to the relevant Base Rate plus the Applicable Base Rate Margin. (b) Eurocurrency Loans. Each Borrower agrees to pay interest in respect of the unpaid principal amount of such Borrower's Eurocurrency Loans from the date the proceeds thereof are made available to such Borrower (or, if such Eurocurrency Loan was converted from a Base Rate Loan, the date of such conversion) until the earlier of (i) the maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise) of such Eurocurrency Loan or (ii) the conversion of such Eurocurrency Loan to a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Section 2.6 at a rate per annum equal to the relevant Eurocurrency Rate plus the Applicable Eurocurrency Margin. (c) Canadian Prime Rate Loans. Canadian Borrower agrees to pay interest in respect of the unpaid principal amount of each Canadian Prime Rate Loan from the date the proceeds thereof are made available to Canadian Borrower (or in the case of a conversion of a B/A Loan to a Canadian Prime Rate Loan, the date of such conversion) until the earlier of (i) the maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise) of such Canadian Prime Rate Loan or (ii) the conversion of such Canadian Prime Rate Loan to a B/A Loan pursuant to Section 2A.6 at a rate per annum equal to the Canadian Prime Rate plus the Applicable Canadian Prime Rate Margin. (d) B/A Loans. Canadian Borrower agrees to pay the Acceptance Fee on the date of acceptance of a draft or making of a B/A Equivalent Loan as calculated in the definition of "Acceptance Fee". (e) Overnight Rate Loans. Company agrees to pay interest in respect of the unpaid principal amount of each Overnight Rate Loan from the date the proceeds thereof are made available to Company until the maturity of such Overnight Rate Loan at a rate per annum equal to the Overnight Euro Rate or Overnight LIBOR Rate, as applicable. (f) Payment of Interest. Interest on each Loan (other than a B/A Loan) shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that interest accruing pursuant to Section 3.1(h) shall be payable from time to time on demand. Interest shall also be payable on all then outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans or Canadian Revolving Loans on the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date or Canadian Revolver Termination Date, as applicable, and on all Loans (other than B/A Loans) on the date of repayment (including prepayment) thereof (except that voluntary prepayments of Multicurrency Revolving Loans or Canadian Revolving Loans that are Base Rate Loans or Canadian Prime Rate Loans made pursuant to Section 4.3 on any day other than a Quarterly Payment Date, the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date or Canadian Revolver Termination Date, as applicable, need not be made with accrued interest from the most recent Quarterly Payment Date, provided such accrued interest is paid on the next Quarterly Payment Date) and on the date of maturity (by acceleration or otherwise) of such Loans. During the existence of any Event of Default, interest on any Loan shall be payable on demand. (g) Notification of Rate. Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, upon determining the interest rate for any Borrowing of Eurocurrency Loans for any Interest Period, shall promptly notify Borrowers and the Lenders thereof. Such determination shall, absent manifest error and subject to Section 3.6, be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto. (h) Default Interest. Notwithstanding the rates of interest specified herein, effective on the date 30 days after the occurrence and continuance of any Event of Default (other than the failure to pay Obligations when due) and for so long thereafter as any such Event of Default shall be continuing, and effective immediately upon any failure to pay any Obligations or any other amounts due under any of the Loan Documents when due, whether by acceleration or otherwise, the principal balance of each Loan (other than a B/A Loan) then outstanding and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any interest payment on each Loan (other than a B/A Loan) not paid when due or other amounts then due and payable shall bear interest payable on demand, after as well as before judgment at a rate per annum equal to the Default Rate. (i) Maximum Interest. If any interest payment or other charge or fee payable hereunder exceeds the maximum amount then permitted by applicable law, the applicable Borrower shall be obligated to pay the maximum amount then permitted by applicable law and the applicable Borrower shall continue to pay the maximum amount from time to time permitted by applicable law until all such interest payments and other charges and fees otherwise due hereunder (in the absence of such restraint imposed by applicable law) have been paid in full. (j) Interest Act (Canada) Disclosure. For the purposes of the Interest Act (Canada) and disclosure thereunder, whenever any interest or fee to be paid hereunder or in connection herewith is to be calculated on the basis of any period of time that is less than a calendar year, the yearly rate of interest to which the rate used in such calculation is equivalent is the rate so used multiplied by the actual number of days in the calendar year in which the same is to be ascertained and divided by 360, 365 or 366, as applicable. The rates of interest under this Agreement are nominal rates, and not effective rates or yields. The principle of deemed reinvestment of interest does not apply to any interest calculation under this Agreement. 3.2 Fees. (a) Upfront Fees. Company shall pay the fees as set forth in the fee letter between Company, DBSI, DB, Bank of America, N.A., Banc of America Securities LLC, Bank One, N.A., Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. to Administrative Agent for distribution as set forth therein. (b) Commitment Fees. Company shall pay to Administrative Agent for pro rata distribution to each Non-Defaulting Lender having a Multicurrency Revolving Commitment (based on its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share) a commitment fee in Dollars (the "Commitment Fee") for the period commencing on the Initial Borrowing Date to and including the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date or the earlier termination of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments (and, in either case, repayment in full of the Multicurrency Revolving Loans and payment in full, or cash collateralization by the deposit of cash into the Collateral Account in amounts and pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to Administrative Agent, of the LC Obligations), computed at a rate equal to the Applicable Commitment Fee Percentage per annum on the average daily Total Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment (with the Available Multicurrency Revolving Commitment of each Lender determined without reduction for such Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of Swing Line Loans outstanding). Unless otherwise specified, accrued Commitment Fees shall be due and payable in arrears (i) on each Quarterly Payment Date, (ii) on the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date and (iii) upon any reduction or termination in whole or in part of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments (but only, in the case of a reduction, on the portion of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments then being reduced). (c) Canadian Commitment Fee. Canadian Borrower agrees to pay to Canadian Administrative Agent for pro rata distribution to each Non-Defaulting Lender having a Canadian Revolving Commitment (based on its Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share) a commitment fee in Canadian Dollars (the "Canadian Commitment Fee") for the period commencing on the Initial Borrowing Date to and including the Canadian Revolver Termination Date or the earlier termination of the Canadian Revolving Commitments (and, in either case, repayment in full of the Canadian Revolving Loans), computed at a rate equal to the Applicable Commitment Fee Percentage per annum on the average daily Total Available Canadian Revolving Commitment. Unless otherwise specified, accrued Canadian Commitment Fees shall be due and payable in arrears (i) on each Quarterly Payment Date, (ii) on the Canadian Revolver Termination Date and (iii) upon any reduction or termination in whole or in part of the Canadian Revolving Commitments (but only, in the case of a reduction, on the portion of the Canadian Revolving Commitments then being reduced). (d) Agency Fees. The applicable Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent for its own account, agency and other Loan fees in the amount and at the times set forth in administrative agent letter between Borrowers and Administrative Agent. 3.3 Computation of Interest and Fees. Interest on all Loans (other than B/A Loans) and fees payable hereunder shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days, provided that, interest on all Base Rate Loans, Canadian Prime Rate Loans and Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Term A Loans denominated in Sterling shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be. Each determination of an interest rate by Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on each Borrower and the Lenders in the absence of manifest error. Administrative Agent shall, at any time and from time to time upon request of any Borrower, deliver to such Borrower a statement showing the quotations used by Administrative Agent in determining any interest rate applicable to Loans pursuant to this Agreement. Each change in the Applicable Base Rate Margin, Applicable Eurocurrency Margin, Applicable Canadian Prime Rate Margin or the Applicable Commitment Fee Percentage or any change in the Applicable LC Commission as a result of a change in Borrowers' Most Recent Leverage Ratio shall become effective on the date upon which such change in such ratio occurs. 3.4 Interest Periods. At the time it gives any Notice of Borrowing or a Notice of Conversion or Continuation, with respect to Eurocurrency Loans, a Borrower shall elect, by giving Administrative Agent written notice, the interest period (each an "Interest Period") which Interest Period shall, at the option of such Borrower, be one, two, three or six months or, if available to each of the applicable Lenders (as determined by each such applicable Lender in its sole discretion) a nine or twelve month period, provided that, prior to the earlier to occur of the Syndication Date and sixty (60) days after the Initial Borrowing Date, Interest Periods for Eurocurrency Loans shall be seven days, except as permitted by Administrative Agent in its sole discretion (with all such Interest Periods ending on the same day during such period); provided, further, that: (a) all Eurocurrency Loans comprising a Borrowing shall at all times have the same Interest Period; (b) the initial Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Loan shall commence on the date of such Borrowing of such Eurocurrency Loan (including the date of any conversion thereto from a Loan of a different Type) and each Interest Period occurring thereafter in respect of such Eurocurrency Loan shall commence on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period; (c) if any Interest Period relating to a Eurocurrency Loan begins on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such calendar month; (d) if any Interest Period would otherwise expire on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall expire on the next succeeding Business Day; provided, however, that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Loan would otherwise expire on a day which is not a Business Day but is a day of the month after which no further Business Day occurs in such month, such Interest Period shall expire on the next preceding Business Day; (e) no Interest Period may be selected at any time when an Unmatured Event of Default or Event of Default is then in existence; (f) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the applicable Term Maturity Date for any Term Loan, the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date for any Multicurrency Revolving Loan or the Canadian Revolver Termination Date for any Canadian Revolving Loan; and (g) no Interest Period in respect of any Borrowing of Term Loans shall be selected which extends beyond any date upon which a mandatory repayment of such Term Loans will be required to be made under Section 4.4(b), (c) or (d) as the case may be, if the aggregate principal amount of Term Loans of such Term Facility which have Interest Periods which will expire after such date will be in excess of the aggregate principal amount of Term Loans of such Term Facility then outstanding less the aggregate amount of such required prepayment. 3.5 Compensation for Funding Losses. The applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender, upon its written request (which request shall set forth the basis for requesting such amounts), for all losses, expenses and liabilities (including, without limitation, any interest paid by such Lender to lenders of funds borrowed by it to make or carry its Eurocurrency Loans or B/A Equivalent Loans to the extent not recovered by the Lender in connection with the liquidation or re-employment of such funds and including the compensation payable by such Lender to a Participant) and any loss sustained by such Lender in connection with the liquidation or re-employment of such funds (including, without limitation, a return on such liquidation or re-employment that would result in such Lender receiving less than it would have received had such Eurocurrency Loan or B/A Equivalent Loan remained outstanding until the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Eurocurrency Loans, but excluding Excluded Taxes) which such Lender may sustain as a result of: (a) for any reason (other than a default by such Lender or Administrative Agent) a continuation or Borrowing of, or conversion from or into, Eurocurrency Loans or B/A Equivalent Loans does not occur on a date specified therefor in a Notice of Borrowing, Notice of Conversion or Continuation, Notice of Canadian Borrowing, Notice of Canadian Conversion or Continuation (whether or not withdrawn); (b) any payment, prepayment or conversion or continuation of any of its Eurocurrency Loans or B/A Loans occurring for any reason whatsoever on a date which is not the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto; (c) any repayment of any of its Eurocurrency Loans not being made on the date specified in a notice of payment given by any Borrower; or (d) (i) any other failure by a Borrower to repay such Borrower's Eurocurrency Loans or B/A Loans when required by the terms of this Agreement or (ii) an election made by Borrowers pursuant to Section 3.7. A written notice setting forth in reasonable detail the basis of the incurrence of additional amounts owed such Lender under this Section 3.5 and delivered to Borrowers and Administrative Agent by such Lender shall, absent manifest error, be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes. Calculation of all amounts payable to a Lender under this Section 3.5 shall be made as though that Lender had actually funded its relevant Eurocurrency Loan or B/A Loan through the purchase of a Eurocurrency deposit bearing interest at the Eurocurrency Rate or a B/A in an amount equal to the amount of that Loan, having a maturity comparable to the relevant Interest Period and through the transfer of such Eurocurrency deposit from an offshore office of that Lender to a domestic office of that Lender in the United States of America; provided, however, that each Lender may fund each of its Eurocurrency Loans and B/A Loans in any manner it sees fit and the foregoing assumption shall be utilized only for the calculation of amounts payable under this Section 3.5. 3.6 Increased Costs, Illegality, Etc. (a) Generally. In the event that any Lender shall have determined (which determination shall, absent manifest error, be final and conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto but, with respect to clause (i) below, may be made only by the applicable Agent): (i) on any Interest Rate Determination Date that, by reason of any changes arising after the date of this Agreement affecting the interbank Eurocurrency market, adequate and fair means do not exist for ascertaining the applicable interest rate on the basis provided for in the definition of Eurocurrency Rate; or (ii) without duplication of amounts set forth in Section 3.6(c) hereof, at any time, that any Lender shall incur increased costs or reduction in the amounts received or receivable hereunder with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan because of (x) any change since the date of this Agreement having generally applicability to all comparably situated Lenders within the jurisdiction in which such Lender operates in any applicable law or governmental rule, regulation, order, guideline or request having the force of law or in the interpretation or administration thereof and including the introduction of any new law or governmental rule, regulation, order, guideline or request, such as, for example, but not limited to: (A) a change in the basis of taxation of payments to any Lender of the principal of or interest on the Notes or any other amounts payable hereunder (except for changes in the basis of taxation of or rate of tax on, or determined by reference to, Excluded Taxes) or (B) a change in official reserve requirements by any Governmental Authority (but, in all events, excluding reserves required under Regulation D to the extent included in the computation of the Eurocurrency Rate) and/or (y) other circumstances since the date of this Agreement affecting such Lender or the interbank Eurocurrency market, the Canadian interbank market or the position of such Lender in such market (excluding, however, differences in a Lender's cost of funds from those of Administrative Agent which are solely the result of credit differences between such Lender and Administrative Agent); or (iii) at any time, that the making or continuance of any Eurocurrency Loan has been made (x) unlawful by any law, directive or governmental rule, regulation or order or (y) impossible by compliance by any Lender in good faith with any governmental request (whether or not having force of law); then, and in any such event, such Lender (or Administrative Agent, in the case of clause (i) above) shall promptly give notice (by telephone confirmed in writing) to Borrowers and, except in the case of clause (i) above, to Administrative Agent of such determination (which notice Administrative Agent shall promptly transmit to each of the other Lenders). Thereafter (x) in the case of clause (i) above, Eurocurrency Loans shall no longer be available until such time as Administrative Agent notifies Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice by Administrative Agent no longer exist, and any Notice of Borrowing, Notice of Conversion or Continuation given by any Borrower with respect to Eurocurrency Loans (other than with respect to conversions to Base Rate Loans) which have not yet been incurred (including by way of conversion) shall be deemed rescinded by such Borrower, (y) in the case of clause (ii) above, the applicable Borrower shall pay to such Lender, upon written demand therefor, such additional amounts (in the form of an increased rate of, or a different method of calculating, interest or otherwise as such Lender in its sole discretion shall determine) as shall be required to compensate such Lender for such increased costs or reductions in amounts received or receivable hereunder (any written notice as to the additional amounts owed to such Lender, showing in reasonable detail the reasonable basis for the calculation thereof, submitted to Borrowers by such Lender shall, absent manifest error, be final and conclusive and binding on all the parties hereto; however the failure to give any such notice shall not release or diminish Borrowers' obligations to pay additional amounts pursuant to this Section 3.6; provided that no Lender shall be entitled to receive additional amounts pursuant to this Section 3.6 for periods occurring prior to the 180th day before the giving of such notice) and (z) in the case of clause (iii) above, the applicable Borrower shall take one of the actions specified in Section 3.6(b) as promptly as possible and, in any event, within the time period required by law. In determining such additional amounts pursuant to clause (y) of the immediately preceding sentence, each Lender shall act reasonably and in good faith and will, to the extent the increased costs or reductions in amounts receivable relate to such Lender's loans in general and are not specifically attributable to a Loan hereunder, use averaging and attribution methods which are reasonable and which cover all loans similar to the Loans made by such Lender whether or not the loan documentation for such other loans permits the Lender to receive increased costs of the type described in this Section 3.6(a). (b) Eurocurrency Loans. At any time that any Eurocurrency Loan is affected by the circumstances described in Section 3.6(a)(ii) or (iii), Borrowers may (and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Loan affected by the circumstances described in Section 3.6(a)(iii), shall) either (i) if the affected Eurocurrency Loan is then being made initially or pursuant to a conversion, by giving Administrative Agent telephonic notice (confirmed in writing) on the same date that such Borrower was notified by the affected Lender or Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 3.6(a)(ii) or (iii), cancel the respective Borrowing, or (ii) if the affected Eurocurrency Loan is then outstanding, upon at least three Business Days' written notice to Administrative Agent, require the affected Lender to convert such Eurocurrency Loan into a Base Rate Loan, provided that, if more than one Lender is affected at any time, then all affected Lenders must be treated the same pursuant to this Section 3.6(b). (c) Capital Requirements. Without duplication of amounts set forth in Section 3.6(a)(ii) hereof, if any Lender determines that the introduction of or any change in any applicable law, directive or governmental rule, regulation, order, guideline or request (whether or not having the force of law) concerning capital adequacy, or any change in (after the date of this Agreement) interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency, will have the effect of increasing the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender based on the existence of such Lender's Commitments hereunder or its obligations hereunder, then the applicable Borrower shall pay to such Lender within 15 days after receipt by such Borrower of written demand by such Lender in accordance with the provisions hereof such additional amounts as shall be required to compensate such Lender or such other corporation for the increased cost to such Lender or such other corporation or the reduction in the rate of return to such Lender or such other corporation as a result of such increase of capital. In determining such additional amounts, each Lender will act reasonably and in good faith and will use averaging and attribution methods which are reasonable and which will, to the extent the increased costs or reduction in the rate of return relates to such Lender's commitments or obligations in general and are not specifically attributable to the Commitments and obligations hereunder, cover all commitments and obligations similar to the Commitments and obligations of such Lender hereunder whether or not the loan documentation for such other commitments or obligations permits the Lender to make the determination specified in this Section 3.6(c), and such Lender's determination of compensation owing under this Section 3.6(c) shall, absent manifest error, be final and conclusive and binding on all the parties hereto. Each Lender, upon determining that any additional amounts will be payable pursuant to this Section 3.6(c), will give prompt written notice thereof to Borrowers, which notice shall show in reasonable detail the basis for calculation of such additional amounts, although the failure to give any such notice shall not release or diminish any of Borrowers' obligations to pay additional amounts pursuant to this Section 3.6(c) (provided that no Lender shall be entitled to receive additional amounts pursuant to this Section 3.6(c) for periods occurring prior to the 180th day before the giving of such notice). (d) Change of Lending Office. Each Lender which is or will be owed compensation pursuant to Section 3.6(a) or (c) will, if requested by any Borrower, use reasonable efforts (subject to overall policy considerations of such Lender) to cause a different branch or Affiliate to make or continue a Loan or Letter of Credit if such designation will avoid the need for, or materially reduce the amount of, such compensation to such Lender and will not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous in any significant respect to such Lender. The requesting Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable expenses incurred by any Lender in utilizing a different branch or Affiliate pursuant to this Section 3.6(d). Nothing in this Section 3.6(d) shall affect or postpone any of the obligations of Borrowers or the right of any Lender provided for herein. 3.7 Replacement of Affected Lenders. (x) If any Multicurrency Revolving Lender or Canadian Revolving Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender or otherwise defaults in its Obligations to make Loans or fund Unpaid Drawings, (y) if any Lender (or in the case of Section 2.10(i), any Facing Agent) is owed increased costs under Section 2.10(i), Section 3.6(a)(ii) or Section 3.6(c), or Borrowers are required to make any payments under Section 4.7 to any Lender the Company determines are materially in excess of those to the other Lenders or (z) as provided in Section 12.1(c) in the case of certain refusals by a Lender to consent to certain proposed amendment, changes, supplements, waivers, discharges or terminations with respect to this Agreement which have been approved by the Required Lenders, Borrowers shall have the right to replace such Lender (the "Replaced Lender") with one or more other Eligible Assignee or Eligible Assignees, none of whom shall constitute a Defaulting Lender at the time of such replacement (collectively, the "Replacement Lender") reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent, provided that, (i) at the time of any replacement pursuant to this Section 3.7, the Replacement Lender shall enter into one or more assignment agreements, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent, pursuant to which the Replacement Lender shall acquire all of the Commitments and outstanding Loans of, and participation in Letters of Credit by, the Replaced Lender and (ii) all obligations of Borrowers owing to the Replaced Lender (including, without limitation, such increased costs and excluding those amounts and obligations specifically described in clause (i) above in respect of which the assignment purchase price has been, or is concurrently being paid) shall be paid in full to such Replaced Lender concurrently with such replacement. Upon the execution of the respective assignment documentation, the payment of amounts referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above and, if so requested by the Replacement Lender, delivery to the Replacement Lender of the appropriate Note or Notes executed by the applicable Borrower, the Replacement Lender shall become a Lender hereunder and, unless the Replaced Lender continues to have outstanding Term Loans hereunder, the Replaced Lender shall cease to constitute a Lender hereunder, except with respect to indemnification provisions under this Agreement, which shall survive as to such Replaced Lender. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained above, no Lender that acts as a Facing Agent may be replaced hereunder at any time which it has Letters of Credit outstanding hereunder unless arrangements reasonably satisfactory to such Facing Agent (including the furnishing of a standby letter of credit in form and substance, and issued by an issuer satisfactory to such Facing Agent or the depositing of cash collateral into the Collateral Account in amounts and pursuant to arrangements reasonably satisfactory to such Facing Agent) have been made with respect to such outstanding Letters of Credit. ARTICLE IV REDUCTION OF COMMITMENTS; PAYMENTS AND PREPAYMENTS 4.1 Voluntary Reduction of Commitments. Upon at least two Business Days' prior written notice (or telephonic notice confirmed in writing) to Administrative Agent at the Notice Office (which notice Administrative Agent shall promptly transmit to each Lender), Company (or in the case of Canadian Revolving Commitments, Canadian Borrower) shall have the right, without premium or penalty, to terminate the unutilized portion of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments, Canadian Revolving Commitments or the Swing Line Commitment, as the case may be, in part or in whole, provided that, (x) any such voluntary termination of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments or Canadian Revolving Commitments shall apply to proportionately and permanently reduce the Multicurrency Revolving Commitment or Canadian Revolving Commitment of each Multicurrency Revolving Lender or Canadian Revolving Lender, as the case may be, (y) any partial voluntary reduction pursuant to this Section 4.1 shall be in the amount of at least $10,000,000 and integral multiples of $5,000,000 in excess of that amount and (z) any such voluntary termination of the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments, Canadian Revolving Commitments or Swing Line Commitment shall occur simultaneously with a voluntary prepayment, pursuant to Section 4.3 such that (i) the Total Multicurrency Revolving Commitment shall not be reduced below the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans plus the aggregate LC Obligations and the Swing Line Commitment, (ii) the total of the Canadian Revolving Commitments shall not be reduced below the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Canadian Revolving Loans and (iii) the Swing Line Commitment shall not be reduced below the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swing Line Loans. 4.2 Mandatory Reduction of Term Commitments. The Term Commitments will terminate in their entirety on the Initial Borrowing Date, after giving effect to the Initial Borrowing on such date. 4.3 Voluntary Prepayments. Borrowers shall have the right to prepay the Loans in whole or in part from time to time on the following terms and conditions: (a) the applicable Borrower shall give Administrative Agent irrevocable written notice at its Notice Office (or telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing) of its intent to prepay the Loans, whether such Loans are Term Loans, Multicurrency Revolving Loans, Canadian Revolving Loans or Swing Line Loans, the amount of such prepayment and the specific Borrowings to which such prepayment is to be applied, which notice shall be given by the applicable Borrower to Administrative Agent by 12:00 noon (New York City time) at least three Business Days prior in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, at least one Business Day prior in the case of Base Rate Loans and Canadian Prime Rate Loans and by 11:00 a.m. (local time) in the case of Swing Line Loans on the date of such prepayment and which notice shall (except in the case of Swing Line Loans) promptly be transmitted by Administrative Agent to each of the applicable Lenders; (b) each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in a principal amount at least equal to the Minimum Borrowing Multiple, provided that, no partial prepayment of Eurocurrency Loans made pursuant to a single Borrowing shall reduce the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Loans made pursuant to such Borrowing to an amount less than the Minimum Borrowing Amount applicable thereto; (c) Eurocurrency Loans may only be prepaid pursuant to this Section 4.3 on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto or on any other day subject to Section 3.5; (d) each prepayment in respect of any Borrowing shall be applied pro rata among the Loans comprising such Borrowing, provided, however, that Canadian Borrower may defease any B/A by depositing with Canadian Administrative Agent an amount equal to the face amount of such maturing B/A, provided, further, that, such prepayment shall not be applied to any Multicurrency Revolving Loans or Canadian Revolving Loans of a Defaulting Lender at any time when the aggregate amount of Multicurrency Revolving Loans or Canadian Revolving Loans of any Non-Defaulting Lender exceeds such Non-Defaulting Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of all Multicurrency Revolving Loans then outstanding or Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share of all Canadian Revolving Loans then outstanding; (e) subject to Section 4.5(c), each voluntary prepayment of Term Loans shall be applied to the Scheduled Term Repayments in proportional amounts equal to the applicable Term Percentage, as the case may be, of Term Loans with respect to such prepayment, if any, and within each Term Loan, shall be applied to reduce the remaining Scheduled Term Repayments, on a pro rata basis. Unless otherwise specified by the applicable Borrower, such prepayment shall be applied first to the payment of Base Rate Loans and second to the payment of such Eurocurrency Loans such Borrower shall request (and in the absence of such request, as Administrative Agent shall determine). In the event that any Term Lender waives all or part of its right to receive its portion of a voluntary prepayment, Administrative Agent shall apply one hundred percent (100%) of the amount so waived, if any, by such Term Lender to the Term A Loans in accordance with this Section 4.3 and then ratably to the Multicurrency Revolving Facility and the Canadian Revolving Facility (provided that any such waived voluntary prepayment by European Holdco shall not be applied to Multicurrency Revolving Loans of Company). The notice provisions, the provisions with respect to the minimum amount of any prepayment, and the provisions requiring prepayments in integral multiples above such minimum amount of this Section 4.3 are for the benefit of Administrative Agent and may be waived unilaterally by Administrative Agent. 4.4 Mandatory Prepayments. (a) Prepayment Upon Overadvance. The applicable Borrower shall prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Multicurrency Revolving Loans, the Canadian Revolving Loans or the Swing Line Loan on any date on which the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Loans together with the aggregate Effective Amount of LC Obligations in the case of the Multicurrency Revolving Loans (after giving effect to any other repayments or prepayments on such day) exceeds the aggregate Multicurrency Revolving Commitments, Canadian Revolving Commitments or the Swing Line Commitment, as the case may be, in the amount of such excess. If, after giving effect to the prepayment of all outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans, the aggregate Effective Amount of LC Obligations exceeds the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments then in effect, Company shall cash collateralize LC Obligations by depositing, pursuant to a cash collateral agreement to be entered into in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent, cash with Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the difference between the Effective Amount of such LC Obligations and the Multicurrency Revolving Commitments then in effect. Administrative Agent shall establish in its name for the benefit of the Multicurrency Revolving Lenders an interest bearing cash collateral account (the "Collateral Account") into which it shall deposit such cash to hold as collateral security for the LC Obligations. If, after giving effect to the prepayment of all outstanding Canadian Prime Rate Loans the outstanding principal amount of Canadian Revolving Loans exceeds the aggregate Canadian Revolving Commitments then in effect, the Canadian Borrower shall cash collateralize outstanding B/A Loans by depositing pursuant to a cash collateral agreement to be entered into in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Canadian Administrative Agent, cash with Canadian Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the difference between the outstanding principal amount of Canadian Revolving Loans and the Canadian Revolving Commitments then in effect. Canadian Administrative Agent shall establish in its name for the benefit of the Revolving Lenders a cash collateral account into which it shall deposit said cash to hold as collateral security for the outstanding B/A Loans. (b) Scheduled Term A Repayments. European Holdco shall cause to be paid Scheduled Term A Repayments on the Term A Loans until the Term A Loans are paid in full in the amounts and currencies and at the times specified in the definition of Scheduled Term A Repayments to the extent that prepayments have not previously been applied to such Scheduled Term A Repayments (and such Scheduled Term A Repayments have not otherwise been reduced) pursuant to the terms hereof. (c) Scheduled Term B Dollar Repayments. Company shall cause to be paid Scheduled Term B Dollar Repayments on the Term B Dollar Loans until the Term B Dollar Loans are paid in full in the amounts and at the times specified in the definition of Scheduled Term B Dollar Repayments to the extent that prepayments have not previously been applied to such Scheduled Term B Dollar Repayments (and such Scheduled Term B Dollar Repayments have not otherwise been reduced) pursuant to the terms hereof. (d) Scheduled Term B Euro Repayments. European Holdco shall cause to be paid Scheduled Term B Euro Repayments on the Term B Euro Loans until the Term B Euro Loans are paid in full in the amounts and currencies and at the times specified in the definition of Scheduled Term B Euro Repayments to the extent that prepayments have not previously been applied to such Scheduled Term B Euro Repayments (and such Scheduled Term B Euro Repayments have not otherwise been reduced) pursuant to the terms hereof. (e) Mandatory Prepayment Upon Asset Disposition. On the first Business Day after the date of receipt thereof by Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries of Net Sale Proceeds from any Asset Disposition (other than an Asset Disposition permitted by Section 8.3 or Sections 8.4(a) through 8.4(l)), except to the extent that the Net Sale Proceeds of such Asset Disposition, when combined with the Net Sale Proceeds of all such Asset Dispositions, during the immediately preceding twelve month period, do not exceed $25,000,000 plus, if an Aerospace Asset Disposition occurred during such period, 50% of the Net Sale Proceeds from such Aerospace Asset Disposition, Company and European Holdco shall cause an amount equal to 100% of such excess Net Sale Proceeds from such Asset Disposition to be applied as a mandatory repayment of principal of the Loans pursuant to the terms of Section 4.5(a), in each case subject to modification of such application as set forth in Section 4.5(c)), provided that, with respect to no more than $150,000,000 in the aggregate of such excess Net Sale Proceeds in any Fiscal Year of Company, the Net Sale Proceeds therefrom shall not be required to be so applied on such date to the extent that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default then exists and such Net Sale Proceeds are used to purchase assets used or to be used in the businesses referred to in Section 8.11 within 360 days following the date of such Asset Disposition; provided, further, that (1) if all or any portion of such Net Sale Proceeds are not so used (or contractually committed to be used) within such 360 day period, such remaining portion shall be applied on the last day of the respective period as a mandatory repayment of principal of outstanding Loans as provided above in this Section 4.4(e) and (2) if all or any portion of such Net Sale Proceeds are not required to be applied on the 360th day referred to in clause (1) above because such amount is contractually committed to be used and subsequent to such date such contract is terminated or expires without such portion being so used, then such remaining portion shall be applied on the date of such termination or expiration as a mandatory repayment of principal of outstanding Loans as provided in this Section 4.4(e). (f) Mandatory Prepayment With Excess Cash Flow. On each Excess Cash Payment Date, Company and European Holdco shall cause an amount equal to 50% of Excess Cash Flow of Company and its Subsidiaries for the most recent Excess Cash Flow Period ending prior to such Excess Cash Payment Date to be applied as a mandatory repayment of principal of the Loans pursuant to the terms of Section 4.5(a), in each case subject to modification of such application as set forth in Section 4.5(c), provided that, so long as no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default then exists, if the Leverage Ratio as of the last day of such most recent Excess Cash Flow Period is less than 3.0:1.0, then, Company and European Holdco shall not be required to apply any portion of Excess Cash Flow as a mandatory repayment of Loans as provided above in this Section 4.4(f)). (g) Mandatory Prepayment with Proceeds of Certain Permitted Indebtedness. On the Business Day of receipt thereof by Company or any Subsidiary, Company and European Holdco shall cause an amount equal to 100% of the Net Offering Proceeds of any Indebtedness permitted by Section 8.2(d) hereof to be applied as a mandatory repayment of principal of the Loans pursuant to the terms of Section 4.5(a), in each case subject to modification of such application as set forth in Section 4.5(c), provided, that, Company shall not be required to make such mandatory prepayment to the extent that such Net Offering Proceeds (1) were used to pay all or any portion of the consideration for a Permitted Acquisition so long as such Indebtedness (x) is unsecured and (y) has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity not less than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of any Term Loan or (2) when aggregated with all other Net Offering Proceeds from issuances of Indebtedness permitted by Section 8.2(d) and not used as a mandatory prepayment pursuant to this clause (other than due to clause (1) above) do not exceed $100,000,000. (h) Mandatory Prepayment Upon Recovery Event. Within ten (10) days following each date on which Company or any of its Subsidiaries receives any proceeds from any Recovery Event, Company and European Holdco shall cause an amount equal to 100% of the proceeds of such Recovery Event (net of reasonable costs and taxes incurred in connection with such Recovery Event) to be applied as a mandatory repayment of principal of the Loans pursuant to the terms of Section 4.5(a), in each case subject to modification of such application as set forth in Section 4.5(c), provided that, so long as no Event of Default then exists, the net proceeds from any Recovery Event shall not be required to be so applied on such date to the extent that any Borrower has delivered a certificate to Administrative Agent on or prior to such date stating that such proceeds shall be used to replace or restore any properties or assets in respect of which such proceeds were paid within 360 days following the date of the receipt of such proceeds (which certificate shall set forth the estimates of the proceeds to be so expended); provided, further, that (i) if all or any portion of such proceeds not required to be applied to the repayment of Loans pursuant to the first proviso of this Section 4.4(h) are not so used (or contractually committed to be used) within 360 days after the day of the receipt of such proceeds, such remaining portion shall be applied on the last day of such period as a mandatory repayment of principal of the Loan as provided in this Section 4.4(h) and (ii) if all or any portion of such proceeds are not required to be applied on the 360th day referred to in clause (i) above because such amount is contractually committed to be used and subsequent to such date such contract is terminated or expires without such portion being so used, then such remaining portion shall be applied on the date of such termination or expiration as a mandatory repayment of principal of outstanding Loans as provided in this Section 4.4(h). 4.5 Application of Prepayments; Waiver of Certain Prepayments. (a) Prepayments. Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, all prepayments of principal made by any Borrower pursuant to Section 4.4(e) through (h) shall be applied (i) first to the payment of the unpaid principal amount of the Term Loans (with the applicable Term Percentage of such repayment to be applied as a repayment of each of the Term Facilities) and second to the pro rata payment of the then outstanding balance of the Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Canadian Revolving Loans and the cash collateralization of LC Obligations; (ii) within each of the foregoing Loans (other than Canadian Revolving Loans), first to the payment of Base Rate Loans and second to the payment of Eurocurrency Loans; (iii) with respect to Eurocurrency Loans, in such order as such Borrower shall request (and in the absence of such request, as Administrative Agent shall determine); and (iv) within Canadian Revolving Loans, first to the payment of Canadian Prime Rate Loans and second to the cash collateralization of outstanding B/A Loans in accordance with the cash collateralization provisions set forth in Section 4.4(a). Each prepayment of Term Loans made pursuant to Section 4.4(e) through (h) shall be allocated within each Term Loan to reduce the remaining Scheduled Term Repayments on a pro rata basis. If any prepayment of Eurocurrency Loans made pursuant to a single Borrowing shall reduce the outstanding Loans made pursuant to such Borrowing to an amount less than the Minimum Borrowing Amount, such Borrowing shall immediately be converted into Base Rate Loans. All prepayments shall include payment of accrued interest on the principal amount so prepaid, shall be applied to the payment of interest before application to principal and shall include amounts payable, if any, under Section 3.5. (b) Payments. All regular installment payments of principal on the Term Loans shall be applied (i) first to the payment of Base Rate Loans and second to the payment of Eurocurrency Loans and (ii) with respect to Eurocurrency Loans, in such order as the applicable Borrower shall request (and in the absence of such request, as Administrative Agent shall determine). All payments shall include payment of accrued interest on the principal amount so paid, shall be applied to the payment of interest before application to principal and shall include amounts payable, if any, under Section 3.5. (c) Waiver of Certain Prepayments by Certain Term Lenders. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 4.5 or elsewhere in this Agreement (including, without limitation, in Section 12.1), the applicable Borrower shall have the option, in its sole discretion, to give the Term Lenders (other than Term A Lenders) with outstanding Term Loans the option to waive a voluntary prepayment or mandatory prepayment of such Term Loans (other than Term A Loans) pursuant to Sections 4.3 and 4.4(e) through (h) (each such repayment, a "Waivable Prepayment") upon the terms and provisions set forth in this Section 4.5(c). If the applicable Borrower elects to exercise the option referred to in the preceding sentence, such Borrower shall give to Administrative Agent written notice of its intention to give the Term Lenders the right to waive a Waivable Prepayment at least five (5) Business Days prior to such repayment, which notice Administrative Agent shall promptly forward to all Term Lenders (other than Term A Lenders) (indicating in such notice the amount of such repayment to be applied to each such Term Lender's outstanding Term Loans). Borrower's offer to permit the Term Lenders (other than Term A Lenders) to waive any such Waivable Prepayment may apply to all or part of such repayment, provided that, any offer to waive part of such repayment must be made ratably to the Term Lenders (other than Term A Lenders) on the basis of their Term Pro Rata Share of outstanding Term Loans. In the event any such Term Lender desires to waive such Lender's right to receive any such Waivable Prepayment in whole or in part, such Lender shall so advise Administrative Agent no later than the close of business two (2) Business Days after the date of such notice from Administrative Agent, which notice shall also include the amount such Lender desires to receive in respect of such prepayment. If any such Lender does not reply to Administrative Agent within the two (2) Business Days after the date of such notice from Administrative Agent, it will be deemed not to have waived any part of such prepayment. If any such Lender does not specify an amount it wishes to receive, it will be deemed to have accepted one hundred percent (100%) of the total payment. In the event that any such Term Lender waives all or part of such right to receive any such Waivable Prepayment, Administrative Agent shall apply one hundred percent (100%) of the amount so waived, if any, by such Term Lender to the Term A Loans to reduce the remaining Scheduled Term A Repayments on a pro rata basis until the Term A Loans are paid in full and then to the pro rata payment of outstanding Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Canadian Revolving Loans and cash collateralization of LC Obligations in accordance with this Section 4.5. 4.6 Method and Place of Payment. (a) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all payments under this Agreement shall be made to Administrative Agent (other than payments with respect to the Canadian Revolving Facility), for the ratable account of the Lenders entitled thereto, not later than 12:00 Noon (local time in the city in which the Payment Office for the payment is located) on the date when due and shall be made in Dollars or the relevant Alternative Currency and in each case to the account specified therefor for Administrative Agent or if no account has been so specified at the Payment Office, it being understood that with respect to payments in Dollars, written telex or telecopy notice by Company to Administrative Agent to make a payment from the funds in Company's account at the Payment Office shall constitute the making of such payment to the extent of such funds held in such account. Administrative Agent will thereafter cause to be distributed on the same day (if payment was actually received by Administrative Agent prior to 12:00 Noon (local time in the city in which the Payment Office for the payment is located on such day)) like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or fees ratably to the Lenders entitled to receive any such payment in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. If and to the extent that any such distribution shall not be so made by Administrative Agent in full on the same day (if payment was actually received by Administrative Agent prior to 12:00 Noon (local time in the city in which the Payment Office for the payment is located on such day)), Administrative Agent shall pay to each Lender its ratable amount thereof and each such Lender shall be entitled to receive from Administrative Agent, upon demand, interest on such amount at the overnight Federal Funds Rate (or the applicable cost of funds with respect to amounts denominated in an Alternative Currency) for each day from the date such amount is paid to Administrative Agent until the date Administrative Agent pays such amount to such Lender. (b) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all payments under this Agreement with respect to the Canadian Revolving Facility shall be made to Canadian Administrative Agent, for the ratable account of the Lenders entitled thereto, not later than 12:00 Noon (local time in the city in which the Payment Office for the payment is located) on the date when due and shall be made in Canadian Dollars and in each case to the account specified therefor for Canadian Administrative Agent or if no account has been so specified at the Payment Office, it being understood that with respect to payments in Canadian Dollars, written telex or telecopy notice by Company to Canadian Administrative Agent to make a payment from the funds in Company's account at the Payment Office shall constitute the making of such payment to the extent of such funds held in such account. Canadian Administrative Agent will thereafter cause to be distributed on the same day (if payment was actually received by Canadian Administrative Agent prior to 12:00 Noon (local time in the city in which the Payment Office for the payment is located on such day)) like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or fees ratably to the Lenders entitled to receive any such payment in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. If and to the extent that any such distribution shall not be so made by Administrative Agent in full on the same day (if payment was actually received by Administrative Agent prior to 12:00 Noon (local time in the city in which the Payment Office for the payment is located on such day)), Canadian Administrative Agent shall pay to each Lender its ratable amount thereof and each such Lender shall be entitled to receive from Canadian Administrative Agent, upon demand, interest on such amount at the applicable cost of funds with respect to Canadian Dollars for each day from the date such amount is paid to Canadian Administrative Agent until the date Canadian Administrative Agent pays such amount to such Lender. (c) Any payments under this Agreement which are made by any Borrower later than 12:00 Noon (local time in the city in which the Payment Office for the payment is located) shall, for the purpose of calculation of interest, be deemed to have been made on the next succeeding Business Day. Whenever any payment to be made hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day and, with respect to payments of principal, interest shall be payable during such extension at the applicable rate in effect immediately prior to such extension, except that with respect to Eurocurrency Loans, if such next succeeding Business Day is not in the same month as the date on which such payment would otherwise be due hereunder or under any Note, the due date with respect thereto shall be the next preceding applicable Business Day. 4.7 Net Payments. (a) All payments made by or on behalf of Borrowers to or on behalf of any Lender or Agent hereunder or under any Loan Document will be made without recoupment, setoff, counterclaim or other defense. Notwithstanding any other provision in any Loan Document, except as provided in this Section 4.7, all payments hereunder and under any of the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, payments on account of principal and interest and fees) to or on behalf of any Lender or Agent shall be made by or on behalf of Borrowers free and clear of and without withholding for or on account of any present or future tax, duty, levy, impost, assessment or other charge of whatever nature now or hereafter imposed by any Governmental Authority, but excluding therefrom (i) Excluded Taxes; (ii) in the case of any Lender or Agent that is not a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code) (each being referred to as a "Non-U.S. Participant"), any taxes imposed by the United States by means of withholding at the source unless such withholding (a) results from a change in applicable law, treaty or regulations or the interpretation or administration thereof by any authority charged with the administration thereof subsequent to the date of this Agreement or (b) is imposed on payments with respect to a Lender's interest in the Loan Documents acquired under Section 3.7, Section 12.6, or Article XIII; (iii) any taxes to the extent such taxes would be avoided if the Lender or Agent provided the forms required under Section 4.7(d), unless (A) the Lender or Agent is not legally entitled to provide the forms (1) as a result of a change in applicable law, treaty, or regulations or interpretation or administration thereof by any authority charged with the administration thereof subsequent to the date such Lender or Agent becomes a Lender or Agent under a Loan Document or (2) after the Lender acquired an interest in the Loan Documents under Section 3.7, Section 12.6, or Article XIII or (B) the Lender or Agent is not providing the forms under Section 4.7(d)(iii) because the Lender or Agent determines (in its good faith judgment) that it is not legally entitled to provide the forms or that providing the forms would prejudice or disadvantage the Lender or Agent in any significant respect; (iv) in the case of any Participant or Assignee that is not a United States person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code), any taxes imposed by the United States by means of withholding at the source that are in effect on the date such Participant or Assignee becomes a party to this Agreement or any Loan Document, except to the extent (i) the person that assigned or transferred the interest to the Participant or Assignee was entitled to reimbursement for such taxes under this Section 4.7 or (ii) the Participant or Assignee becomes a party to a Loan Document under Section 3.7, Section 12.6, or Article XIII; and (v) any taxes imposed by Canada on any amount paid or credited prior to any CAM Exchange under the Canadian Revolving Facility to any Canadian Lender or any Eligible Assignee to whom any part of a Canadian Lender's Credit Exposure was assigned (a) that is not resident in Canada for purposes of the ITA, or (b) that is not otherwise deemed to be resident in Canada for purposes of Part XIII of the ITA in respect of any amounts paid or credited to such Lender or Eligible Assignee under the Canadian Revolving Facility. (b) If any Borrower is required by law to make any deduction or withholding of any taxes from any payment due hereunder or under any of the Loan Documents (except for taxes excluded under Section 4.7(a)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), and (v)), then the amount payable will be increased to such amount which, after deduction from such increased amount of all such Taxes required to be withheld or deducted therefrom, will not be less than the amount due and payable hereunder had no such deduction or withholding been required. If any Borrower makes any payment hereunder or under any of the Loan Documents in respect of which it is required by law to make any deduction or withholding of any taxes, it shall pay the full amount to be deducted or withheld to the relevant taxation or other authority within the time allowed for such payment under applicable law and shall deliver to the Agent within 30 days after it has made such payment to the applicable authority a receipt issued by such authority evidencing the payment to such authority of all amounts so required to be deducted or withheld from such payment. (c) Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 4.7(a), if any Lender, or Administrative Agent on its behalf, is required by law to make any payment on account of Taxes on or in relation to any such received or receivable Tax hereunder or under any of the Loan Documents by such Lender, or Administrative Agent on its behalf, or any cost, loss or liability for Tax in respect to any such payment is imposed, levied or assessed against any Lender or Administrative Agent on its behalf, the applicable Borrower will promptly indemnify such person against such Tax payment or cost, loss or liability, together with any interest, penalties and expenses (including counsel fees and expenses but excluding Excluded Taxes) payable or incurred in connection therewith, including any Tax of any Lender arising by virtue of payments under this Section 4.7(c), computed in a manner consistent with this Section 4.7(c). A certificate (showing in reasonable detail the basis for such calculation) as to the amount of such payment by such Lender, or Administrative Agent on its behalf, absent manifest error, shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto for all purposes. (d) (i) Each Lender or Agent that is a Non-U.S. Participant (other than a Canadian Revolving Lender that has only a Canadian Revolving Commitment) agrees to deliver to Company and Administrative Agent on or prior to the Initial Borrowing Date, or in the case of a Lender or Agent that becomes a party to a Loan Document on a later date, the date such Lender or Agent becomes a party to a Loan Document, together with any other certificate or statement of exemption required under the Code, (a) two (or more, as reasonably requested by Company or Administrative Agent) accurate and properly completed original signed copies of IRS Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or W-8IMY (or successor forms), or (b), (x) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit 4.7(d) (any such certificate, a "Section 4.7(d) Certificate") and (y) two (or more, as reasonably requested by Company or Administrative Agent) accurate and properly completed original signed copies of IRS Form W-8BEN (or successor form). In addition, each such Non-U.S. Participant agrees that from time to time after the Initial Borrowing Date, when a lapse in time or change in circumstances renders the previous certification obsolete or inaccurate in any material respect, it will timely deliver to Company and Administrative Agent two (or more, as reasonably requested by Company or Administrative Agent) new accurate and properly completed original signed copies of IRS Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or W-8IMY, or IRS Form W-8BEN and a Section 4.7(d) Certificate, as the case may be, and such other forms as may be required in order to confirm or establish the entitlement of such Lender or Agent to a continued exemption from (or reduction in) United States withholding Tax with respect to payments under any Loan Document. To the extent a Non-U.S. Participant (other than a Canadian Revolving Lender that has only a Canadian Revolving Commitment) is unable to deliver the forms required under Section 4.7(d)(i), or the forms previously delivered are inaccurate in any material respects, it shall immediately notify Company and Administrative Agent. (ii) Each Lender and Agent that is a U.S. Person (as such term is defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code) and that is not a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, agrees to deliver to Company and Administrative Agent on or prior to the Initial Borrowing Date, or in the case of a Lender or Agent that becomes a party to a Loan Document on a later date, the date the Lender or Agent becomes a party to such Loan Document, two accurate and properly completed original signed copies of IRS Form W-9 (or successor form) certifying to such Lender's or Agent's entitlement to receive payments under such Loan Document without deduction for United States backup withholding tax. (iii) Each Lender and Agent shall, if requested by Company or Administrative Agent, within a reasonable period of time after such request, provide to Company, Administrative Agent or the applicable Governmental Authority any other tax forms or other documents or complete other formalities necessary or appropriate to avoid (or reduce) withholding for or on account of any Taxes imposed on payments under the Loan Documents pursuant to the laws of the jurisdiction of organization of Company, Canadian Borrower, European Holdco or any Subsidiary Borrower, as applicable, provided, however, that no Lender or Agent shall be required to provide forms or documents or complete other formalities under this Section 4.7(d)(iii) to the extent the Lender or Agent determines (in its good faith discretion) that it is not legally entitled to do so or that providing such forms or documents or completing the other formalities would prejudice or disadvantage the Lender or Agent in any significant respect. To the extent that a Lender or Agent is unable to deliver the forms or documents or complete the other formalities required under this Section 4.7(d)(iii) or the previous forms delivered are inaccurate in any material respects, the Lender or Agent shall promptly notify Company and Administrative Agent. (e) Each Lender agrees that, as promptly as practicable after it becomes aware of the occurrence of any event or the existence of any condition that would cause any Borrower to make a payment in respect of any Taxes to such Lender pursuant to Section 4.7(a) or a payment in indemnification for any Taxes pursuant to Section 4.7(c), it will use reasonable efforts to make, fund or maintain the Loan or other Facility (or portion of either) or participation in Letters of Credit (or portions thereof) of such Lender with respect to which the aforementioned payment is or would be made through another lending office of such Lender if as a result thereof the additional amounts which would otherwise be required to be paid by any Borrower in respect of such Loans or other Facility (or portions of either) or participation in Letters of Credit (or portions thereof) pursuant to Section 4.7(a) or Section 4.7(c) would be materially reduced, and if, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, the making, funding or maintaining of such Loans or other Facility (or portions of either) or participation in Letters of Credit (or portions thereof) through such other lending office would not be otherwise significantly disadvantageous to such Lender. Each Borrower agrees to pay all reasonable expenses incurred by any Lender in utilizing another lending office of such Lender pursuant to this Section 4.7(e). (f) If any Borrower shall pay any Taxes pursuant to this Section 4.7 and any Lender or any Agent at any time thereafter receives a refund of such Taxes or, in its sole judgment, a direct credit with respect to the payment of such Taxes, then such Lender or any Agent shall promptly pay to such Borrower the amount of such refund or credit net of all out-of-pocket expenses reasonably incurred by the Lender or any Agent to obtain such refund or credit and without interest except for any interest paid by the relevant Government Authority with respect to the refund); provided, however, that such Borrower agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower under this Section 4.7(f) (plus any penalties, interest, and other related charges) to the Lender or any Agent in the event the Lender or any Agent is required to repay the refund to the Government Authority. ARTICLE V CONDITIONS OF CREDIT 5.1 Conditions Precedent to the Initial Borrowing. The obligation of the Lenders to make the Initial Loans and the obligation of the respective Facing Agent to issue and the Lenders to participate in Letters of Credit under this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment, at or prior to the Initial Borrowing Date, of each of the following conditions: (a) Credit Agreement and Notes. Borrowers shall have duly executed and delivered to Administrative Agent, with a signed counterpart for each Lender, this Agreement (including all schedules, exhibits, certificates, opinions and financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth herein), and, if requested, the Notes payable to the order of each applicable Lender in the amount of their respective Commitments all of which shall be in full force and effect; (b) United States and Canadian Guaranties and Pledge Agreements. (i) United States Loan Guaranty. Each Domestic Subsidiary of Company that is also a Material Subsidiary shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered the United States Loan Guaranty in the form of Exhibit 5.1(b)(i) (as modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the "United States Loan Guaranty"), (ii) United States Pledge Agreement. Company and each Domestic Subsidiary of Company that is also a Material Subsidiary shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered the United States Pledge Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit 5.1(b)(ii) (as modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the "United States Pledge Agreement"), (iii) Canadian Loan Guaranty. Canadian Holdings and each Subsidiary of Canadian Borrower that is also a Material Subsidiary shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered a Canadian Loan Guaranty in the form of Exhibit 5.1(b)(iii) (as modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the "Canadian Loan Guaranty"), (iv) Canadian Pledge Agreement. Canadian Holdings shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered a Canadian Pledge Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit 5.1(b)(iv) hereto with respect to the shares of Canadian Borrower or with respect to the shares of any other company such other form as is reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Canadian Pledge Agreement"), (v) Perfection of Pledge Agreement Collateral. Each Credit Party party to a United States Pledge Agreement or a Canadian Pledge Agreement shall have delivered to Administrative Agent: (A) all the Pledged Securities referred to in such Pledge Agreements then owned, if any, by such Credit Party, together with executed and undated stock powers, in the case of capital stock constituting Pledged Securities and the Pledge Agreements and such other documents shall be in full force and effect, (B) proper financing statements (Form UCC-1 or such other financing statements or similar notices as shall be required by local law, if any) for filing under the UCC or other appropriate filing offices of each foreign and domestic jurisdiction as may be necessary or, in the opinion of Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, desirable to perfect the security interests purported to be created by the Pledge Agreements, (C) copies of Requests for Information or Copies (Form UCC-11 or equivalent reports), listing all effective financing statements or similar notices that name Company or its Subsidiaries (by its actual name or any trade name, fictitious name or similar name), or any division or other operating unit thereof, as debtor and that are filed in the jurisdiction referred to in said clause (B) above, together with copies of such other financing statements (none of which shall cover the Collateral except to the extent evidencing Permitted Liens or for which Administrative Agent shall have received termination statements (Form UCC-3 or such other termination statements as shall be required by local law) for filing), (D) evidence of the completion of all other recordings and filings of, or with respect to, the Pledge Agreements with any foreign or domestic Governmental Authorities and all other actions as may be necessary or, in the opinion of Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, desirable to perfect the security interests intended to be created by the Pledge Agreements, and (E) evidence that all other actions necessary, or in the reasonable opinion of Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, desirable to perfect the security interests purported to be taken by the Pledge Agreements have been taken; (c) European Guaranties and Security Documents. The Credit Parties listed on Schedule 5.1(c) shall have duly executed and delivered the European Loan Guaranties and Security Documents set forth on such Schedule. (d) Opinions of Counsel. Administrative Agent shall have received from (i) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel to the Credit Parties, an opinion addressed to Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders and dated the Initial Borrowing Date, which shall be in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders and which shall cover the matters set forth in Exhibit 5.1(d)(i) and such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated herein as Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders may reasonably request, (ii) opinions of local counsel to Administrative Agent and/or the Credit Parties (as is customary in the respective jurisdictions) from Luxembourg, Germany, Canada, the United Kingdom, France and such other jurisdictions as reasonably requested by Administrative Agent dated the Initial Borrowing Date which shall cover the matters set forth in Exhibit 5.1(d)(ii), with such exceptions as are reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent, and such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated herein as Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders may reasonably request, each of which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, and (iii) confirmation from each counsel delivering a legal opinion in connection with the Schmalbach Acquisition (including, without limitation, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Illinois)) that Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders, as applicable, are entitled to rely upon their respective opinions delivered pursuant to the Schmalbach Acquisition; (e) Officer's Certificate. Administrative Agent shall have received, with a signed counterpart for each Lender, a certificate executed by a Responsible Officer on behalf of Borrowers, dated the date of this Agreement and in the form of Exhibit 5.1(e) hereto, stating that the representations and warranties set forth in Article VI hereof are true and correct as of the date of the certificate, that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, that the conditions of Section 5.1 hereof have been fully satisfied (except that no opinion need be expressed as to Administrative Agent's or Required Lenders' satisfaction with any document, instrument or other matter); (f) Secretary's Certificate. On the Initial Borrowing Date, Administrative Agent shall have received from each Credit Party a certificate, dated the Initial Borrowing Date, signed by the secretary or any assistant secretary (or, if no secretary or assistant secretary exists, a Responsible Officer), of such Credit Party, in the form of Exhibit 5.1(f) with appropriate insertions, as to the incumbency and signature of the officers of each such Credit Party executing any Document (in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent) and any certificate or other document or instrument to be delivered pursuant hereto or thereto by or on behalf of such Credit Party, together with evidence of the incumbency of such secretary or assistant secretary (or, if no secretary or assistant secretary exists, such Responsible Officer), and certifying as true and correct, attached copies of the Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate of Amalgamation or other equivalent document (certified as of recent date by the Secretary of State or other comparable authority where customary in such jurisdiction) and By-Laws (or other Organizational Documents) of such Credit Party and the resolutions of such Credit Party and, to the extent required, of the equity holders of such Credit Party, referred to in such certificate and all of the foregoing (including each such Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate of Amalgamation or other equivalent document and By-Laws (or other Organizational Documents)) shall be satisfactory to Administrative Agent; (g) Good Standing. Where customary in such jurisdiction, a good standing certificate or certificate of status or comparable certificate of each Credit Party from the Secretary of State (or other governmental authority) of its state or province of organization or such equivalent document issued by any foreign Governmental Authority if applicable in such foreign jurisdiction; (h) Adverse Change. On the Initial Borrowing Date, both before and after giving effect to the Transaction, there shall be no facts, events or circumstances then existing and nothing shall have occurred which shall have come to the attention of any of the Lenders which materially adversely affects the business, assets, financial condition, operations or prospects of Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or Schmalbach and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole since December 31, 2001; (i) Approvals. All necessary governmental (domestic and foreign) and material third party approvals and/or consents in connection with the Transaction and the transactions contemplated by the Documents shall have been obtained and remain in effect, and all applicable waiting periods shall have expired without any action being taken by any competent authority which restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the consummation of all or any part of the Transaction or the other transactions contemplated by the Documents. Additionally, there shall not exist any judgment, order, injunction or other restraint issued or filed or a hearing seeking injunctive relief or other restraint pending or notified prohibiting or imposing material adverse conditions upon all or any part of the Transaction, the transactions contemplated by the Documents or the making of the Loans or the issuance of Letters of Credit; (j) Litigation. No action, suit or proceeding (including, without limitation, any inquiry or investigation) by any entity (private or governmental) shall be pending or, to the best knowledge of Borrowers, threatened against Company and any of its Subsidiaries or with respect to this Agreement, any other Document or any documentation executed in connection herewith or the transactions contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, the Transaction), or the obligations being refinanced in connection with the consummation of the Transaction or which Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall determine would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and no injunction or other restraining order shall remain effective or a hearing therefor remain pending or noticed with respect to this Agreement, any other Document or any documentation executed in connection herewith or the transactions contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, the Transaction), the effect of which would reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; (k) Fees. Borrowers shall have paid jointly and severally to Administrative Agent and the Lenders all costs, fees and expenses (including, without limitation, legal fees and expenses of Winston & Strawn and the reasonable costs, fees and expenses referred to in Section 12.4) payable to Administrative Agent and the Lenders to the extent then due. Fees and expenses incurred by the Credit Parties and their Subsidiaries with respect to the Transaction shall not exceed $50,000,000 and on the Initial Borrowing Date, after giving effect to the Transaction, Company shall not have incurred more than $170,000,000 under the Multicurrency Revolving Facility; (l) Evidence of Insurance. On the Initial Borrowing Date, Administrative Agent shall have received evidence of insurance complying with the requirements of Section 7.8 for the business and properties of Company and its Subsidiaries. (m) Pro Forma Balance Sheet. Administrative Agent shall have received the Pro Forma Balance Sheet prepared in accordance with of the Securities Act in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders. (n) Termination of Existing Credit Agreements. On the Initial Borrowing Date with proceeds from the Initial Borrowing hereunder, the total commitments under each of the Existing Credit Agreements shall have been terminated, all loans thereunder shall have been repaid in full, together with interest thereon, all letters of credit, if any, issued thereunder shall have been terminated and all other amounts owing pursuant to the such agreements shall have been repaid in full and the such agreements shall have been terminated on terms and conditions satisfactory to Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders and be of no further force or effect and the creditors thereunder shall have terminated and released all security interests and Liens on the assets owned by Company and its Subsidiaries in a manner satisfactory to Administrative Agent. (o) Existing Indebtedness. On the Initial Borrowing Date and after giving effect to the Transaction and the other transactions contemplated hereby, neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall have any material indebtedness for money borrowed outstanding except for the Loans and the Indebtedness to Remain Outstanding. The Indebtedness to Remain Outstanding shall not be incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, the Transaction; (p) Tax and Accounting Aspects of Transactions/Capital Structure. The Required Lenders shall be reasonably satisfied with all financial, legal, tax and accounting matters (including any tax legislation pending before the United States Congress or any committee thereof) relating to the Transactions. On the Initial Borrowing Date, the ownership, financial structure and capital structure (including without limitation, the terms of any capital stock, options, warrants or other securities issued by Company or any of its Subsidiaries) and management of Company and its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transaction) shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Required Lenders; (q) Acquisition Agreement. The Acquisition Agreement shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto, and shall be in full force and effect; (r) Consummation of Transactions, Etc. The structure and all material terms of, and the documentation for, each component of the Transaction shall be reasonably satisfactory to each of the Lenders, including, without limitation, the agreements and documentation pertaining to the 2012 Senior Note Financing. The transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents shall have been consummated in all material respects without any material waiver or amendment, except as disclosed on Schedule 5.1(r) hereto and as consented to by the Required Lenders (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), of any conditions precedent thereto required to be performed on or prior to the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby which are for the benefit of each Borrower and the waiver of which, in the reasonable judgment of the Required Lenders, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and the Lenders shall have received such evidence of the consummation of such transactions as the Lenders may reasonably request; all representations and warranties of the Credit Parties and the other parties thereto contained in the Transaction Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects; and all material notifications, consents and approvals required pursuant to the Transaction Documents shall have been given or obtained, as the case may be; (s) Audited Financials. Administrative Agent and each Lender shall have received (i) audited consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2000 and 2001, statements of income and cash flows at December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001 and interim financial statements at June 30, 2002 of Schmalbach (including the beverage can business but excluding the PET plastic container business and the WhiteCap closure business), (ii) the most recent unaudited quarterly consolidated financial statements for Schmalbach, (iii) monthly financial statements for Schmalbach for each month since the most recent quarterly statements, to the extent received by Company, and (iv) financial projections and pro forma financial statements for Company and its Subsidiaries and all such statements, projections and pro forma financial statements, (including, with respect to the projections, the reasonableness of any assumptions made therein), shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Required Lenders; (t) Solvency Certificate. On the Initial Borrowing Date, Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received a solvency certificate, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent, from the Chief Financial Officer of Company with respect to the solvency of Company, after giving effect to the Transaction; (u) Environmental Review. Administrative Agent and each Lender shall have received the Environmental Study. The Required Lenders shall be satisfied as to the existing and potential liability of Company and its Subsidiaries and Schmalbach and its Subsidiaries with respect to any environmental matters, including any matters related to the assets acquired pursuant to the Schmalbach Acquisition, and including compliance with laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and receipt of Environmental Studies with respect to such properties as such Lenders may reasonably request; (v) Pension Liabilities. Administrative Agent shall have completed a review of the pension liabilities of Schmalbach and its subsidiaries, and the results of such review shall be reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent; (w) 2012 Senior Note Financing. If the 2012 Senior Note Financing is consummated, Company shall have received gross cash proceeds of at least $200,000,000 from such 2012 Senior Notes; (x) Other Matters. All corporate and other proceedings taken in connection with the Transactions at or prior to the date of this Agreement, and all documents incident thereto will be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Administrative Agent; (y) Post-Closing Agreement. Company shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered the Post-Closing Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit 5.1(y). 5.2 Conditions Precedent to All Credit Events. The obligation of each Lender to make Loans (including Loans made on the Initial Borrowing Date) and the obligation of any Facing Agent to issue or any Lender to participate in any Letter of Credit hereunder in each case shall be subject to the fulfillment at or prior to the time of each such Credit Event of each of the following conditions: (a) Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties contained in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall each be true and correct in all material respects at and as of such time, as though made on and as of such time except to the extent such representations and warranties are expressly made as of a specified date in which event such representation and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such specified date. (b) No Default. No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and shall then be continuing on such date or will occur after giving effect to such Credit Event. (c) Notice of Borrowing; Letter of Credit Request. (i) Prior to the making of each Loan, Administrative Agent shall have received a Notice of Borrowing meeting the requirements of Section 2.5 or Canadian Administrative Agent shall have received a Notice of Canadian Borrowing meeting the requirements of Section 2A.5, as applicable. (ii) Prior to the issuance of each Letter of Credit, Administrative Agent and the respective Facing Agent shall have received a Letter of Credit Request meeting the requirements of Section 2.10(c). (d) Other Information. Administrative Agent shall have received such other information and reports as it may reasonably request in connection with such Credit Event. The acceptance of the benefits of each such Credit Event by Borrowers shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by it to the effect of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 5.2 (except that no opinion need be expressed as to Administrative Agent's or Required Lenders' satisfaction with any document, instrument or other matter). Each Lender hereby agrees that by its execution and delivery of its signature page hereto and by the funding of its Loan to be made on the Initial Borrowing Date, such Lender approves of and consents to each of the matters set forth in Section 5.1 and Section 5.2 which must be approved by, or which must be satisfactory to, Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders or Lenders, as the case may be, provided that, in the case of any agreement or document which must be approved by, or which must be satisfactory to, the Required Lenders, Administrative Agent or Company shall have delivered or caused to be delivered a copy of such agreement or document to such Lender on or prior to the Initial Borrowing Date if requested. ARTICLE VI REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES In order to induce the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Loans, and issue (or participate in) the Letters of Credit as provided herein, each Borrower with respect to itself and its Subsidiaries makes the following representations and warranties as of the Initial Borrowing Date (both before and after giving effect to the consummation of the Transaction) and as of the date of each subsequent Credit Event (except to the extent such representations and warranties are expressly made as of a specified date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true as of such specified date), all of which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Notes and the making of the Loans and issuance of the Letters of Credit: 6.1 Corporate Status. Each Credit Party (i) is a duly organized and validly existing organization in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization (to the extent that such concept exists in such jurisdiction), (ii) has the corporate or other organizational power and authority to own its property and assets and to transact the business in which it is engaged and (iii) is duly qualified and is authorized to do business and is in good standing (to the extent such concept exists in the relevant jurisdiction) in (y) Indiana in the case of Company, or its jurisdiction of organization in the case of a Subsidiary of Company and (z) in each other jurisdiction where the ownership, leasing or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except in the case of clause (z) for such failure to be so qualified, authorized or in good standing which, in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.2 Corporate Power and Authority. Each Credit Party has the corporate power and authority to execute and deliver each of the Documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by it of each of such Documents. Each Credit Party has duly executed and delivered each of the Documents to which it is a party, and each of such Documents constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws generally affecting creditors' rights and by equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law). 6.3 No Violation. The execution and delivery by any Credit Party of the Documents to which it is a party (including, without limitation, the granting of Liens pursuant to the Security Documents) and the performance of such Credit Party's obligations thereunder do not (i) contravene any provision of any Requirement of Law applicable to any Credit Party, (ii) conflict with or result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of (or the obligation to create or impose) any Lien (except pursuant to the Security Documents) upon any of the property or assets of any Credit Party pursuant to the terms of any Contractual Obligation to which any Credit Party is a party or by which it or any of its property or assets is bound except for such contraventions, conflicts, breaches or defaults that would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, (iii) violate any provision of any Organizational Document of any Credit Party or (iv) require any approval of stockholders or any material approval or consent of any Person (other than a Governmental Authority) except filings, consents, or notices which have been made, obtained or given and except as set forth on Schedule 6.3. 6.4 Governmental and Other Approvals. Except as set forth on Schedule 6.4 and except for filings necessary to create or perfect security interests in the Collateral, no material order, consent, approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with (except as have been obtained or made on or prior to the Initial Borrowing Date), or exemption by, any Governmental Authority, is required to authorize, or is required in connection with, (i) the execution and delivery of any Document or the performance of the obligations thereunder or (ii) the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of any such Document. 6.5 Financial Statements; Financial Condition; Undisclosed Liabilities Projections; Etc. (a) Financial Statements. (i) The balance sheet of Company at December 31, 2000 and 2001, June 30, 2002 and September 30, 2002 and the related statements of income, cash flows and shareholders' equity of Company for the Fiscal Year or other period ended on such dates, as the case may be, and the financial statements of Schmalbach delivered pursuant to Section 5.1(s) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition and results of operation and cash flows of Company and its consolidated subsidiaries or Schmalbach, respectively, as of such dates and for such periods. Copies of such statements have been furnished to the Lenders prior to the date hereof and, in the case of the December 31, 2000 and 2001 statements, have been examined by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent certified public accountants, who delivered an unqualified opinion in respect thereto, and (ii) the pro forma (after giving effect to the Transaction, the related financing thereof and the other transactions contemplated hereby and thereby) balance sheet of Company attached hereto as Schedule 6.5(a) (the "Pro Forma Balance Sheet") presents fairly in all material respects the financial condition of Company at the date of such balance sheet and presents a good faith estimate of the pro forma financial condition of Company (after giving effect to the Transaction, the related financing thereof and the other transactions contemplated hereby and thereby) at the date thereof. The Pro Forma Balance Sheet has been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) subject to normal year-end adjustments. (b) Solvency. On and as of the Initial Borrowing Date, after giving effect to the Transaction and to all Indebtedness (including the Loans) being incurred (and the use of proceeds thereof) and Liens created by Borrowers in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, (i) the sum of the assets, at a fair valuation, of each Credit Party will exceed its debts; (ii) no Credit Party has incurred, intends to, or believes that it will, incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as such debts mature; and (iii) each Credit Party will have sufficient capital with which to conduct its business. For purposes of this Section 6.5(b) "debt" means any liability on a claim, and "claim" means (y) any right to payment, whether or not such a right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured, or unsecured (including all obligations, if any, under any Plan or the equivalent for unfunded past service liability, and any other unfunded medical and death benefits) or (z) any right to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise to a payment, whether or not such right to an equitable remedy is reduced to judgment, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, secured or unsecured. In computing the amount of contingent or unliquidated liabilities at any time, such liabilities will be computed at the amount which, in light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonable be expected to become an actual or matured liability. (c) No Undisclosed Liabilities. Except as fully reflected in the financial statements and the notes related thereto delivered pursuant to Section 6.5(a) and on Schedule 6.5(d) there were as of the Initial Borrowing Date (and after giving effect to the Transaction and the other transactions contemplated hereby) no liabilities or obligations with respect to Company and its Subsidiaries of any nature whatsoever (whether absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether or not due) which, either individually or in aggregate, would be material to Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. As of the Initial Borrowing Date (and after giving effect to the Transaction and the other transactions contemplated hereby), Borrowers do not know of any basis for the assertion against Company or any Subsidiary of any liability or obligation of any nature whatsoever that is not reflected in the financial statements or the notes related thereto delivered pursuant to Section 6.5(a) and on Schedule 6.5(d) which, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to be material to Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. (d) Indebtedness. Schedule 6.5(d) sets forth a true and complete list of all material Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness permitted pursuant to Sections 8.2(a) through (i) and (k) through (r)) of Company and its Subsidiaries as of the Initial Borrowing Date and which is to remain outstanding on the date hereof after giving effect to the Transaction (the "Indebtedness to Remain Outstanding"), in each case showing the outstanding aggregate principal amount thereof (and the aggregate amount of any undrawn commitments with respect thereto) and the name of the respective obligor and any other entity which directly or indirectly guaranteed such debt. No Indebtedness to Remain Outstanding has been incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, the Transaction or the other transactions contemplated hereby. Borrowers have delivered or caused to be delivered to Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of the form of each material agreement or instrument evidencing Indebtedness for money borrowed listed on Schedule 6.5(d) and of each material agreement or instrument pursuant to which such Indebtedness for money borrowed was issued. (e) Projections. On and as of the Initial Borrowing Date, the financial projections, attached hereto as Schedule 6.5(e) and previously delivered to Administrative Agent and the Lenders (the "Projections") and each of the budgets delivered after the Effective Date pursuant to Section 7.2(d) are, at the time made, prepared on a basis consistent with the financial statements referred to in Sections 7.1(a) and (b) and are at the time made based on good faith estimates and assumptions made by the management of Company, and there are no statements or conclusions in the Projections or any such budgets which, at the time made, are based upon or include information known to Company to be materially misleading or which fail to take into account material information regarding the matters reported therein. On the Initial Borrowing Date, Company believes that the Projections are reasonable and attainable, it being understood that uncertainty is inherent in any forecasts or projections, such Projections are not to be viewed as facts, and that no assurance can be given that the results set forth in the Projections will actually be obtained and the differences may be material. (f) No Material Adverse Change. Since December 31, 2001, there has been no fact, event, circumstance or occurrence which has caused or resulted in a Material Adverse Effect. 6.6 Litigation. There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best knowledge of Company and its Subsidiaries, threatened (i) against Company or any Credit Party challenging the validity or enforceability of any material provision of any Loan Document, or (ii) that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.7 True and Complete Disclosure. All factual information (taken as a whole) heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by or on behalf of Company or any of its Subsidiaries in writing to any Lender (including, without limitation, all information contained in the Documents) (other than the Projections as to which Section 6.5(e) applies) for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated herein is, and all other such factual information (taken as a whole) hereafter furnished by or on behalf of Company or any of its Subsidiaries in writing to any Lender for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated herein, when taken as a whole, do not contain as of the date furnished any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained herein or therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Borrowers have disclosed to the Lenders (a) all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which Company or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and (b) all other matters known to any of them, that individually or in the aggregate with respect to (a) and (b) above, would reasonably be expected to result in Material Adverse Effect. 6.8 Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations. (a) Term Loan Proceeds. All proceeds of the Term Loans incurred on the Initial Borrowing Date shall be used by Company and European Holdco (x) to finance, in part, the Schmalbach Acquisition, the Schmalbach Refinancing and the Company Refinancing, (y) to pay fees and expenses in connection with the Transaction (which fees and expenses shall not exceed, in the aggregate, $50,000,000) and (z) for general corporate purposes of Company and European Holdco; provided that, the proceeds under the Term A Loans shall not be used to finance any direct or indirect acquisition of any Schmalbach Subsidiaries organized under the laws of France and/or to finance any direct or indirect contribution in exchange for shares of Company Subsidiaries organized under the laws of France. (b) Multicurrency Revolving Loan and Canadian Revolving Loan Proceeds. All proceeds of the Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Canadian Revolving Loans incurred hereunder shall be used by Borrowers and Canadian Borrower, as applicable, for ongoing working capital needs and general corporate purposes (other than as Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness of the 2008 Subordinated Notes), including Permitted Acquisitions by Company and its Subsidiaries. (c) Margin Regulations. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock (as defined in Regulation U of the Board), directly or indirectly, or to extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any such margin stock for the purpose of reducing or retiring any indebtedness which was originally incurred to purchase or carry any margin security or for any other purpose which might cause any of the Loans or other extensions of credit under this Agreement to be considered a "purpose credit" within the meaning of Regulation T, U or X of the Board. 6.9 Taxes. (a) Tax Returns and Payments. Each of Company and each of its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed with the appropriate taxing authority, all material returns, statements, forms and reports for taxes (the "Returns") required to be filed by or with respect to the income, properties or operations of Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries. The Returns accurately reflect all material liability for taxes of Company and its Subsidiaries for the periods covered thereby. Each of Company and each of its Subsidiaries has paid all material taxes owed by it other than those contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been established in conformity with GAAP or their equivalent in the relevant jurisdiction of the taxing authority. As of the Initial Borrowing Date, except as disclosed to the Lenders in writing, there is no material action, suit, proceeding, investigation, audit, or claim pending or, to the knowledge of Borrowers, threatened by any authority regarding any taxes relating to Company or any of its Subsidiaries. As of the Initial Borrowing Date, neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has incurred, or will incur, any material tax liability in connection with the Transaction. As of the Initial Borrowing Date, neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has participated in a transaction (i) the "significant purpose of which is the avoidance or evasion of federal income tax" within the meaning of Code section 6111(d)(i)(A) and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder or (ii) is a "reportable transaction" within the meaning of Temporary Treasury Regulation 1.6011-4T. (b) Tax Examinations. There are no tax examinations in progress with respect to any material taxes or tax returns of Company or its Subsidiaries for which deficiencies have been asserted against Company and its Subsidiaries that have not been fully paid or finally settled or are not being contested in good faith with adequate reserves having been established in conformity with GAAP or their equivalent in the relevant jurisdiction of the taxing authority for the taxes being contested. No issue has been raised in writing in any examination which, by application or similar principles, reasonably can be expected to result in an assertion of a material deficiency for any open taxable year which is not under examination that has not been accrued on Company's and its Subsidiaries' audited financial statements for its most recently ended Fiscal Year in accordance with GAAP or their equivalent in the relevant jurisdiction of the taxing authority. Except as disclosed to the Lenders in writing, neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has knowledge of any material income tax liability with respect to open taxable years in excess of amounts accrued for current taxes on such Person's financial statements for its most recently ended Fiscal Year. 6.10 Compliance With ERISA. Except as, in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, each Plan has been operated and administered in a manner so as not to result in any liability of any Borrower for failure to comply with the applicable provisions of applicable law, including ERISA and the Code; no Termination Event has occurred with respect to a Plan; to the best knowledge of each Borrower, no Multiemployer Plan is insolvent or in reorganization; no Plan has an accumulated or waived funding deficiency or has applied for an extension of any amortization period within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code; Borrowers and their Subsidiaries or any ERISA Affiliates have not incurred any liability to or on account of a Plan pursuant to Section 409, 502(i), 502(l), 4062, 4063, 4064, 4069, 4201 or 4204 of ERISA or Section 4971 or 4975 of the Code; no proceedings have been instituted to terminate any Plan within the last fiscal year; using actuarial assumptions and computation methods consistent with subpart 1 of subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA, to the best knowledge of Borrowers, Borrowers and their Subsidiaries and ERISA Affiliates would not have any liability to any Plans which are Multiemployer Plans in the event of a complete withdrawal therefrom, as of the close of the most recent fiscal year of each such Multiemployer Plan ending prior to the date of any Credit Event; no Lien imposed under the Code or ERISA on the assets of Borrowers or any of their Subsidiaries or any ERISA Affiliate exists or is likely to arise on account of any Plan; Borrowers and their Subsidiaries and ERISA Affiliates have made all contributions to each Plan within the time required by law or by the terms of such Plan; and Borrowers and their Subsidiaries and ERISA Affiliates do not maintain or contribute to any employee welfare benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA) which provides benefits to retired employees (other than as required by Section 601 et seq. of ERISA) or any employee pension benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) the obligations with respect to either of which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.11 Security Documents. (a) When executed and delivered, the Pledge Agreements will be effective to create in favor of Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Creditors, legal and valid security interest in the Collateral described therein and proceeds thereof. In the case of the Pledged Securities to the extent represented by certificated securities (the "Certificated Pledged Stock") described in the Pledge Agreements, when stock certificates representing such Certificated Pledged Stock are delivered to Collateral Agent, and in the case of the other Collateral described in the Pledge Agreements, when financing statements and other filings specified on Schedule 6.11 in appropriate form are filed in the offices specified on Schedule 6.11 and the Borrowers receive proceeds of the Loans on the Initial Borrowing Date, the Pledge Agreements shall constitute a fully perfected Lien (to the extent such Lien can be perfected by filing, recording, registration or, with respect to the Certificated Pledged Stock, possession) on, and security interest in, all right, title and interest of the Credit Parties in such Collateral and the proceeds thereof, as security for the Obligations (as defined in the Pledge Agreements), in each case prior and superior in right to any other Person (except, in the case of Collateral other than Certificated Pledged Stock, Liens permitted by Section 8.1, and only to the extent that priority can be obtained by filing). (b) In the case of the Pledged Securities described in any European Pledge Agreement, when stock certificates are delivered to Collateral Agent if any are issued immediately and all other conditions required therein are met, each European Pledge Agreement shall constitute a fully perfected (to the extent such concept exists in the relevant jurisdiction) Lien on, and security interest in, all right, title and interest of the Credit Parties in such Pledged Securities and the proceeds thereof, as security for the Obligations (as defined in such European Pledge Agreement), in each case prior and superior in right to any other Person except Liens permitted by Section 8.1. 6.12 Documents. (a) True and Accurate Copies; Consummation of Transaction. Borrowers have heretofore delivered to Administrative Agent true, correct and complete copies of the material Transaction Documents. Borrowers have, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, consummated the transactions contemplated by the material Transaction Documents pursuant thereto, and the material Transaction Documents set forth the entire agreement among the parties thereto with respect to the subject matter of such material Transaction Documents. Except as set forth on Schedule 5.1(r) hereto, to the Company's knowledge, no party to the material Transaction Documents has waived the fulfillment of any condition precedent set forth therein to the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, no party is in default or has failed to perform any of its obligations thereunder or under any instrument or document executed and delivered in connection therewith. (b) Representations and Warranties in Documents. All representations and warranties set forth in the material Transaction Documents were true and correct in all material respects at the time as of which such representations and warranties were made or deemed made. 6.13 Ownership of Property. Company and each Material Subsidiary has good and marketable title to, or a subsisting leasehold interest in, all material items of real and personal property used in its operations (except as to leasehold interests) free and clear of all Liens, except Permitted Liens and except to the extent that the failure to have such title or interest (individually or in the aggregate) would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Substantially all items of real and material personal property owned by, leased to or used by Company and each Material Subsidiary are in adequate operating condition and repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted, are free and clear of any known defects except such defects as do not substantially interfere with the continued use thereof in the conduct of normal operations, and are able to serve the function for which they are currently being used, except to the extent the failure to keep such condition (individually or in the aggregate) would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.14 Capitalization of Company. On the Initial Borrowing Date after giving effect to the Transaction, Company will have no Capital Stock outstanding other than the Common Stock. All outstanding shares of capital stock of Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable. A complete and correct copy of each of the Organizational Documents of Company in effect on the date of this Agreement has been delivered to Administrative Agent. Company does not have any outstanding stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for any shares of its Capital Stock, or any rights issued to any Person (either preemptive or other) to subscribe for or to purchase, or any options for the purchase of, or any agreements providing for the issuance (contingent or otherwise) of, or any calls, commitments or claims of any character relating to any of its Capital Stock or any stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for any of its Capital Stock (other than as set forth in the Organizational Documents of Company). 6.15 Subsidiaries. (a) Organization. Schedule 6.15 hereto sets forth a true, complete and correct list as of the date of this Agreement of each Subsidiary of Company (including for purposes of this list the members of the BAP Group) and indicates for each such Subsidiary (i) its jurisdiction of organization, (ii) its ownership (by holder and percentage interest) and (iii) whether such Subsidiary is a Material Subsidiary. As of the Initial Borrowing Date, Company has no Subsidiaries except for those Subsidiaries listed as such on Schedule 6.15 hereto. (b) Capitalization. All shares of capital stock of each Subsidiary of Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable (except for shares of Canadian Borrower which are assessable upon a winding up or bankruptcy of Canadian Borrower) and are owned free and clear of all Liens except for Permitted Liens. No authorized but unissued or treasury shares of capital stock of any Subsidiary of Company are subject to any option, warrant, right to call or similar commitment. A complete and correct copy of each Organizational Document of each Domestic Subsidiary of Company, each first-tier Foreign Subsidiary of Company or a Domestic Subsidiary and any other Subsidiary Borrower in effect on the date of this Agreement has been delivered to Administrative Agent. (c) Restrictions on or Relating to Subsidiaries. Except to the extent permitted by Section 8.14, there does not exist any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of: (i) any Subsidiary of Company to pay dividends or make any other distributions on its Capital Stock, or to pay any Indebtedness owed to Company or a Subsidiary of Company; (ii) any Subsidiary of Company to make loans or advances to Company or any of Company's Subsidiaries; or (iii) Company or any of its Subsidiaries to transfer any of its properties or assets to Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except, in connection with (i), (ii) or (iii) above, for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (x) applicable law, (y) this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or (z) customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing a leasehold interest of Company or a Subsidiary of Company. 6.16 Compliance With Law, Etc. Neither Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries is in default under or in violation of any Requirement of Law applicable to any of them or Contractual Obligation, or under its Organizational Documents, as the case may be, in each case the consequences of which default or violation, either in any one case or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.17 Investment Company Act. Neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. 6.18 Public Utility Holding Company Act. Neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a "holding company," or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," or an "affiliate" of a "holding company" or of a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company" within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended. 6.19 Environmental Matters. (a) Company and each of its Subsidiaries have complied in all material respects with, and on the date of such Credit Event are in compliance in all material respects with, all applicable Environmental Laws and Environmental Permits except for such non-compliance as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect. There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of Borrowers, threatened Environmental Claims against Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any real property currently owned or operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries except for such Environmental Claims that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. (b) Hazardous Materials have not at any time been generated, used, treated or stored on, or transported to or from, or otherwise come to be located on, any real property owned or at any time operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries where such generation, use, treatment or storage has violated or would reasonably be expected to violate or create liability under any Environmental Law in any material respect and result, either individually or in the aggregate, in a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of Borrowers, Hazardous Materials have not at any time been Released on or from, or otherwise come to be located on, any real property owned or at any time operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries where such Release has violated or would reasonably be expected to violate or create liability under any Environmental Law in any material respect and result, either individually or in the aggregate, in a Material Adverse Effect. 6.20 Labor Relations. Neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is engaged in any unfair labor practice that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is (i) no significant unfair labor practice complaint pending against Company or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the best knowledge of Borrowers, threatened against any of them before the National Labor Relations Board or any similar Governmental Authority in any jurisdiction, and no significant grievance or significant arbitration proceeding arising out of or under any collective bargaining agreement is so pending against Company or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the best knowledge of Borrowers, threatened against any of them, (ii) no significant strike, labor dispute, slowdown or stoppage is pending against Company or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the best knowledge of Borrowers, threatened against Company or any of its Subsidiaries and (iii) to the best knowledge of Borrowers, no question concerning union representation exists with respect to the employees of Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except (with respect to any matter specified in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above, either individually or in the aggregate) such as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.21 Intellectual Property, Licenses, Franchises and Formulas. Each of Company and its Subsidiaries owns or holds licenses or other rights to or under all the material patents, patent applications, trademarks, designs, service marks, trademark and service mark registrations and applications therefor, trade names, copyrights, copyright registrations and applications therefor, trade secrets, proprietary information, computer programs, data bases, licenses, permits, franchises and formulas, or rights with respect to the foregoing which are material to the business of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (collectively, "Intellectual Property"), and has obtained assignments of all leases and other rights of whatever nature, material to the present conduct of the business of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, without any known material conflict with the rights of others except, in each case, where the failure to own or hold such rights or obtain such assignments would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has knowledge of any existing or threatened claim by any Person contesting the validity, enforceability, use or ownership of the Intellectual Property, or of any existing state of facts that would support a claim that use by Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any such Intellectual Property has infringed or otherwise violated any proprietary rights of any other Person which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.22 Foreign Pension Matters. (a) Each Foreign Pension Plan is in compliance and in good standing (to the extent such concept exists in the relevant jurisdiction) in all material respects with all laws, regulations and rules applicable thereto, including all funding requirements, and the respective requirements of the governing documents for such Foreign Pension Plan; (b) with respect to each Foreign Pension Plan maintained or contributed to by Company or any Subsidiary, (i) that is required by applicable law to be funded in a trust or other funding vehicle, the aggregate of the accumulated benefit obligations under such Foreign Pension Plan does not exceed to any material extent the current fair market value of the assets held in the trusts or similar funding vehicles for such Foreign Pension Plan and (ii) that is not required by applicable law to be funded in a trust or other funding vehicle, reasonable reserves have been established in accordance with prudent business practice or where required by ordinary accounting practices in the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Pension Plan is maintained; (c) there are no material actions, suits or claims (other than routine claims for benefits) pending or, to the knowledge of Company and its Subsidiaries, threatened against Company or any Subsidiary with respect to any Foreign Pension Plan; (d) all material contributions required to have been made by Company or any Subsidiary to any Foreign Pension Plan have been made within the time required by law or by the terms of such Foreign Pension Plan; and (e) except as disclosed on Schedule 6.22, no Foreign Pension Plan with respect to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries could have any material liability has been terminated or wound-up and no actions or proceedings have been taken or instituted to terminate or wind-up such a Foreign Pension Plan. 6.23 Schmalbach Acquisition. As of the Initial Borrowing Date and immediately prior to the making of the Initial Loans: (a) the Acquisition Documents are in full force and effect, no material breach, default or waiver of any term or provision thereof by Company or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the best of Company's knowledge, the other parties thereto, has occurred (except for such breaches, defaults and waivers, if any, consented to in writing by Administrative Agent) and no action has been taken by any competent authority which restrains, prevents or imposes any material adverse condition upon, or seeks to restrain, prevent or impose any material adverse condition upon, the Schmalbach Acquisition; (b) the representations and warranties of Company and its Subsidiaries party thereto contained in the Acquisition Documents, if any, are true and correct in all material respects; (c) except as set forth in Schedule 5.1(r) to this Agreement, all material conditions precedent to, and all material consents necessary to permit, the Acquisition pursuant to the Acquisition Documents have been satisfied, the Schmalbach Acquisition has been consummated substantially in accordance with the Acquisition Documents, and Company or any of its Subsidiaries has obtained good and marketable title to all assets acquired pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement free and clear of any Liens other than Permitted Liens. ARTICLE VII AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS Each Borrower herby agrees, as to itself and its Subsidiaries, that, so long as any of the Commitments remain in effect, or any Loan or LC Obligation remains outstanding and unpaid or any other amount is owing to any Lender or Administrative Agent hereunder, such Borrower shall: 7.1 Financial Statements. Furnish, or cause to be furnished, to each Lender: (a) Quarterly Financial Statements. As soon as available, but in any event not later than fifty (50) days after the end of each of the Fiscal Quarters of each Fiscal Year of Company, the unaudited consolidating (on a basis reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent) and consolidated balance sheet and statements of income of Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter and the related unaudited consolidated statements of retained earnings and of cash flows of Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such quarter and the portion of the Fiscal Year through the end of such quarter, all of which shall be certified by the Chief Financial Officer of Company, as at the dates indicated and for the periods indicated, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments; (b) Annual Financial Statements. As soon as available, but in any event within ninety-five (95) days after the end of each Fiscal Year of Company, a copy of the consolidating (on a basis reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent) and audited consolidated balance sheet of Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the related consolidating and audited consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and of cash flows for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous year; All such financial statements shall be complete and correct in all material respects, shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied consistently throughout the periods reflected therein and with prior periods (except as approved by the accountants preparing such statements or the Chief Financial Officer, as the case may be, and disclosed therein) and, in the case of the consolidated financial statements referred to in Section 7.1(b), shall be accompanied by a report thereon of independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing, which report shall contain no qualifications with respect to the continuance of Company and its Subsidiaries as going concerns and shall state that such financial statements present fairly the financial position of Company and its Subsidiaries as at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flow for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP. 7.2 Certificates; Other Information. Furnish to each Lender (or, if specified below, to Administrative Agent): (a) Officer's Certificates. Concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in Sections 7.1(a) and 7.1(b), a certificate of the Company's Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer substantially in the form of Exhibit 7.2(a) (a "Compliance Certificate") stating that to the best of such officer's knowledge, (i) such financial statements present fairly, in accordance with GAAP (or, in the case of financial statements of any Foreign Subsidiary delivered pursuant to Section 7.1(a), generally accepted accounting principles in such Person's jurisdiction of organization), the financial condition and results of operations of Company and its Subsidiaries for the period referred to therein (subject, in the case of interim statements, to normal recurring adjustments) and (ii) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists, except as specified in such certificate and, if so specified, the action which Company proposes to take with respect thereto, which certificate shall set forth detailed computations to the extent necessary to establish Company's compliance with the covenants set forth in Article IX of this Agreement; (b) Audit Reports and Statements. Promptly following Company's receipt thereof, copies of all consolidated financial or other consolidated reports or statements, if any, submitted to Company or any of its Subsidiaries by independent public accountants relating to any annual or interim audit of the books of Company or any of its Subsidiaries including, without limitation, to the extent available, audited reports with respect to each Material Subsidiary that is a Foreign Subsidiary, reconciled to GAAP by Company, within one hundred eighty (180) days after the end of each Fiscal Year of the applicable Foreign Subsidiary; (c) Management Letters. Promptly after receipt thereof, a copy of any "management letter" received by Company or any of its Subsidiaries from its certified public accountants; (d) Budgets; Projections. As soon as available and in any event within sixty (60) days following the first day of each Fiscal Year of Company (i) an annual budget (by quarter) in form satisfactory to Administrative Agent (including budgeted balance sheet, statements of earnings and cash flows) prepared by Company for each Fiscal Quarter of such Fiscal Year, which shall be accompanied by the statement of the Chief Executive Officer, Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer of Company to the effect that, to the best of his knowledge at the time made, such budget is a reasonable estimate for the periods covered thereby; (e) Public Filings. Within ten (10) Business Days after the same become public, copies of all financial statements, filings, registrations and reports which Borrowers may make to, or file with, the SEC or any successor or analogous Governmental Authority; (f) Other Requested Information. Such other information with respect to Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the Collateral, including, without limitation, any Asset Disposition or financing transaction, as Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request. 7.3 Notices. Promptly and in any event within three (3) Business Days after a Responsible Officer of Company or of any of its Subsidiaries obtains knowledge thereof, give written notice to Administrative Agent (which shall promptly provide a copy of such notice to each Lender) of: (a) Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default. The occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default, accompanied by a statement of the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Company setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action Borrowers propose to take with respect thereto; (b) Litigation and Related Matters. The commencement of, or any material development in, any action, suit, proceeding or investigation pending or threatened against or affecting Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority, (i) in which Company reasonably determines that expected exposure not covered by insurance of Company and its Subsidiaries exceeds $20,000,000 in the aggregate, (ii) with respect to any Loan Document or any material Indebtedness or preferred stock of Company or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) which, if determined adversely to Company or any of its Subsidiaries, would individually or when aggregated with any other action, suit, proceeding or investigation reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (c) Environmental Matters. The occurrence of one or more of the following environmental matters which would reasonably be expected to subject Company or any of its Subsidiaries to liability individually or in the aggregate in excess of $20,000,000: (i) any pending or threatened material Environmental Claim against Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any real property owned or operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (ii) any condition or occurrence on or arising from any real property owned or operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries that (y) results in material noncompliance by Company or any of its Subsidiaries with any applicable Environmental Law or (z) would reasonably be expected to form the basis of a material Environmental Claim against Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any such real property; (iii) any condition or occurrence on any real property owned or operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries that would reasonably be expected to cause such real property to be subject to any material restrictions on the ownership, occupancy, use or transferability of such real property under any Environmental Law; (iv) the taking of any Remedial Action on any real property at any time owned or operated by Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and (v) All such notices shall describe in reasonable detail the nature of the Environmental Claim, condition, occurrence or Remedial Action and Company's or such Subsidiary's response thereto. In addition, Company will provide Administrative Agent with copies of all written communications with any Governmental Authority relating to actual or alleged violations of Environmental Laws, all written communications with any Person relating to Environmental Claims, and such detailed written reports of any Environmental Claim as may reasonably be requested by Administrative Agent; 7.4 Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence. Company and its Subsidiaries shall continue to engage in business of the same general types as now conducted by them (including, without limitation, businesses reasonably related or incidental thereto) and preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its and each of its Material Subsidiary's corporate existence and take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges and franchises material to its and those of each of its Material Subsidiaries' business except as otherwise permitted pursuant to Sections 8.3 and 8.4 and comply and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply with all Requirements of Law except to the extent that failure to comply therewith would not in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 7.5 Payment of Obligations. Company shall pay or discharge or otherwise satisfy at maturity or, to the extent permitted hereby, prior to maturity or before they become delinquent, as the case may be, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to pay or discharge or otherwise satisfy at or before maturity or before they become delinquent, as the case may be: (a) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon any of them or upon any of their income or profits or any of their respective properties or assets prior to the date on which penalties attach thereto; and (b) all lawful claims prior to the time they become a Lien (other than Permitted Liens) upon any of their respective properties or assets; provided, however, that neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim while the same is being contested by it in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued so long as Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP (segregated to the extent required by GAAP) or their equivalent in the relevant jurisdiction of the taxing authority with respect thereto. 7.6 Inspection of Property, Books and Records. Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep or cause to be kept, adequate records and books of account, in which entries are to be made reflecting its and their business and financial transactions in accordance with GAAP and all material Requirements of Law and permit, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to permit, any Lender or its respective representatives, at any reasonable time during normal business hours, and from time to time at the reasonable request of such Lender and at such Lender's expense made to Borrowers and upon reasonable notice, to visit and inspect its and their respective properties, to examine and make copies of and take abstracts from its and their respective records and books of account, and to discuss its and their respective affairs, finances and accounts with its and their respective principal officers, and, if an Event of Default exists and is continuing, independent public accountants (and by this provision Borrowers authorize such accountants to discuss with the Lenders and such representatives, and in the presence of Company, the affairs, finances and accounts of Company and its Subsidiaries). 7.7 ERISA. (a) As soon as practicable and in any event within ten (10) Business Days after Company or any of its Subsidiaries knows or has reason to know that a Termination Event has occurred with respect to any Plan, deliver, or cause such Subsidiary to deliver, to Administrative Agent a certificate of a responsible officer of Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, setting forth the details of such Termination Event and the action, if any, which Company or such Subsidiary is required or proposes to take, together with any notices required or proposed to be given; (b) Upon the request of any Lender made from time to time, deliver, or cause each Subsidiary to deliver, to each Lender a copy of the most recent actuarial report and annual report on Form 5500 (to the extent such annual report is required by law) completed with respect to any Plan; (c) As soon as possible and in any event within ten (10) Business Days after Company or any of its Subsidiaries knows or has reason to know that any of the following have occurred with respect to any Plan: (i) such Plan has been terminated, reorganized, petitioned or declared insolvent under Title IV of ERISA, (ii) the Plan Sponsor terminates such Plan, (iii) the PBGC has instituted proceedings under Section 515 of ERISA to collect a delinquent contribution to such Plan or under Section 4042 of ERISA to terminate such Plan, (iv) that an accumulated funding deficiency has been incurred or that on application has been made to the Secretary of the Treasury for a waiver or modification of the minimum funding standard (including any required installment payments) or on extension of any amortization period under Section 412 of the Code, (v) Company or any Subsidiary of Company has incurred any liability that would result in a Material Adverse Effect under any employee welfare benefit plan (within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA) that provides benefits to retired employees (other than as required by Section 601 et seq. of ERISA) or any employee pension benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), deliver, or cause such Subsidiary or ERISA Affiliate to deliver, to Administrative Agent a written notice thereof; (d) As soon as possible and in any event within thirty (30) days after Company or any of its Subsidiaries knows or has reason to know that any of them has caused a complete withdrawal or partial withdrawal (within the meaning of Sections 4203 and 4205, respectively, of ERISA) from any Multiemployer Plan, deliver, or cause such Subsidiary or ERISA Affiliate to deliver, to Administrative Agent a written notice thereof; (e) For purposes of this Section 7.7, Company shall be deemed to have knowledge of all facts known by the Plan Administrator of any Plan of which Company is the Plan Sponsor, and each Subsidiary of Company shall be deemed to have knowledge of all facts known by the Plan Administrator of any Plan of which such Subsidiary is a Plan Sponsor. In addition to its other obligations set forth in this Article VII, Company shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, at the request of any Lender, deliver to such Lender (and a copy to Administrative Agent) copies of the most recent annual reports, actuarial reports and notices received by Company or any Subsidiary with respect to any Foreign Pension Plan no later than ten (10) Business Days after the date of such request. 7.8 Maintenance of Property, Insurance. (a) Company shall keep, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to keep, all material property (including, but not limited to, equipment) useful and necessary in its business in good working order and condition, normal wear and tear and damage by casualty excepted, and subject to Section 8.4; (b) Company shall maintain, and shall cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to maintain, with reputable insurers, insurance with respect to its material properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons. Such insurance shall be maintained with reputable insurers, except that a portion of such insurance program (not to exceed that which is customary in the case of companies engaged in the same or similar business or having similar properties similarly situated) may be effected through self-insurance, provided adequate reserves therefor, in accordance with GAAP, are maintained; (c) Company shall furnish to Administrative Agent, on the Initial Borrowing Date, a schedule listing the insurance it, each Credit Party and Material Subsidiary carried. 7.9 Environmental Laws. (a) Company shall comply with, and cause its Subsidiaries to comply with, and, in each case take reasonable steps to ensure compliance by all tenants and subtenants, if any, with, all applicable Environmental Laws and obtain and comply in all material respects with and maintain, and take reasonable steps to ensure that all tenants and subtenants obtain and comply in all material respects with and maintain, any and all licenses, approvals, notifications, registrations or permits required by applicable Environmental Laws except to the extent that failure to do so would not in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) Company shall conduct and complete all investigations, studies, sampling and testing, and all remedial, removal and other actions required under Environmental Laws and promptly comply in all material respects with all lawful orders, directives and information requests of all Governmental Authorities regarding Environmental Laws except to the extent that the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or except to the extent that such failure to do so would not in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (c) Company shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and their respective employees, agents, officers and directors, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, claims, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of whatever kind or nature known or unknown, contingent or otherwise, arising out of, or in any way relating to the violation of, noncompliance with or liability under, any Environmental Law applicable to the operations of Company, any of its Subsidiaries or the Premises, the Former Premises or any real property to which Hazardous Materials related to Company or any of its Subsidiaries come to be located, or any orders, requirements or demands of Governmental Authorities related thereto, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' and consultants' fees, investigation and laboratory fees, costs arising from any Remedial Action, court costs and litigation expenses, except to the extent that any of the foregoing arise out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the party seeking indemnification therefor. The agreements in this Section 7.9(c) shall survive termination of the Commitments and repayment of the Notes and all other Obligations. 7.10 Interest Rate Protection. No later than ninety (90) days following the Initial Borrowing Date, Company shall enter into and maintain arrangements reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders which have the effect of establishing a fixed or maximum interest rate reasonably acceptable to Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, for a period of at least two and one half (2 1/2) years, for an aggregate notional principal amount of not less than fifty percent (50%) of Company's Consolidated Debt less the outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness that bears interest at a fixed rate. 7.11 Use of Proceeds. Use all proceeds of the Loans as provided in Section 6.8. 7.12 Additional Security; Further Assurances. (a) Additional Guarantors and Pledgors. (i) Subject to Section 12.22, Company agrees to cause each Domestic Subsidiary (other than a Receivables Subsidiary) that is or becomes a Material Subsidiary to become a party to the United States Loan Guaranty and the United States Pledge Agreement in accordance with the terms thereof; (ii) Subject to Section 12.22, Company and European Holdco agree to cause each Foreign Subsidiary (other than a Receivables Subsidiary) that is or becomes a Material Subsidiary of Company (other than a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a Province of Canada or the federal laws of Canada) to become a party to a European Loan Guaranty and a European Pledge Agreement; provided, that no Subsidiary shall be required to execute such documents to the extent and for so long as any Requirement of Law (including any exchange control, financial assistance, minimum capitalization, fraudulent conveyance, mandatory labor advice or similar rules or regulations, "Foreign Requirements of Law") would be violated thereby if all relevant Persons have taken all commercially reasonable steps to avoid or cure such violation; (iii) Subject to Section 12.22, Company and Canadian Borrower agree to cause each Subsidiary (other than a Receivables Subsidiary) that is or becomes a Material Subsidiary of Company that is organized under the laws of a Province of Canada or the federal laws of Canada to become a party to a Canadian Loan Guaranty and (A) in the case of the pledge of the Capital Stock of a Nova Scotia unlimited liability company, a Canadian Pledge Agreement and (B) in the case of a pledge of Capital Stock in any other corporation, a securities pledge agreement substantially in the form of the United States Pledge Agreement, with such modifications and amendments as may be required to perfect the Collateral Agent's interest therein pursuant to the laws of the applicable Canadian province and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein, in each case, in accordance with the terms thereof; (iv) Company agrees to cause each Subsidiary that becomes a guarantor of obligations arising under any Permitted Debt Document and that is not at such time party to the United States Loan Guaranty to become a party to the United States Loan Guaranty in accordance with the terms thereof; provided, however, that this Section 7.12(a)(iv) shall not apply to a Foreign Subsidiary that becomes a guarantor of only obligations under one or more Permitted Debt Documents of persons that are not United States persons within the meaning of Code Section 7701(a)(30); and (v) If, following a change in the relevant sections of the Code or the regulations, rules, rulings, notices or other official pronouncements issued or promulgated thereunder, the Administrative Agent or Required Lenders provides Company with an opinion addressed to Company of counsel (selected by the Company within 30 days after receiving the request of Administrative Agent) that, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Company, concludes that with respect to any Foreign Subsidiary that is a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Company which has not already executed the United States Loan Guaranty that becoming party to such guaranty would not cause the undistributed earnings of a Foreign Subsidiary as determined for United States Federal income tax purposes to be treated as a deemed dividend to a Foreign Subsidiary's United States parent for United States Federal income tax purposes, then such Foreign Subsidiary will become a party to the United States Loan Guaranty to the extent that entering into such agreement is permitted by the laws of the respective foreign jurisdiction. All reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders to obtain such an opinion shall be paid by Company. (b) Pledge of New Subsidiary Stock. (i) Subject to Section 12.22, Company agrees to pledge (or to cause its Subsidiaries to pledge) all of the Capital Stock of each new Domestic Subsidiary that is a Material Subsidiary and each Domestic Subsidiary that becomes a Material Subsidiary and 65% of the Capital Stock of each new first-tier Foreign Subsidiary (directly owned by Company or a Domestic Subsidiary) that is a Material Subsidiary and each first-tier Foreign Subsidiary (directly owned by Company or a Domestic Subsidiary) that becomes a Material Subsidiary established, acquired, created or otherwise in existence after the Initial Borrowing Date to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant to the terms of the United States Pledge Agreement promptly, and in any event, within sixty (60) days of the creation of such new Subsidiary or the date such Subsidiary becomes a Material Subsidiary, as applicable; (ii) Subject to Section 12.22, Company and Canadian Holdings agree to pledge (or to cause their Subsidiaries to pledge) all of the Capital Stock of each of Canadian Holdings' new Subsidiaries that is a Material Subsidiary and each of Canadian Holdings' Subsidiaries that becomes a Material Subsidiary established, acquired, created or otherwise in existence after the Initial Borrowing Date to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant to Section 7.12(a)(iii), within sixty (60) days of the creation of such new Subsidiary or the date such Subsidiary becomes a Material Subsidiary, as applicable; and (iii) Subject to Section 12.22 and except to the extent (and for so long as) it would result in a violation of Foreign Requirements of Law (which all relevant Persons have taken all commercially reasonable steps to avoid or cure), Company and European Holdco agree to pledge (or to cause their Subsidiaries to pledge) all of the Capital Stock of each new Foreign Subsidiary that is a Material Subsidiary (other than a Foreign Subsidiary owned directly by Company or a Domestic Subsidiary) and each Foreign Subsidiary that becomes a Material Subsidiary (other than a Foreign Subsidiary owned directly by Company or a Domestic Subsidiary) established, acquired, created or otherwise in existence after the Initial Borrowing Date to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant to the terms of the applicable European Pledge Agreement, within sixty (60) days of the creation of such new Subsidiary or the date such Subsidiary becomes a Material Subsidiary, as applicable. (c) Documentation for Additional Security. The security interests required to be granted pursuant to this Section 7.12 shall be granted pursuant to such security documentation (which shall be substantially similar to the Security Documents already executed and delivered by the applicable Borrower) reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Administrative Agent and shall constitute valid and enforceable first priority perfected security interests subject to no other Liens except Permitted Liens. The Additional Security Documents and other instruments related thereto shall be duly recorded or filed in such manner and in such places and at such times as are required by law to establish, perfect, preserve and protect such security interest, in favor of Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Lenders, required to be granted pursuant to the Additional Security Document and, all taxes, fees and other charges payable in connection therewith shall be paid in full by Company. At the time of the execution and delivery of the Additional Security Documents, Company shall cause to be delivered to Administrative Agent such agreements, opinions of counsel and other related documents as may be reasonably requested by Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders to assure themselves that this Section 7.12 has been complied with. 7.13 End of Fiscal Years; Fiscal Quarters. Cause Company's and European Holdco's annual accounting periods to end on December 31 of each year (each a "Fiscal Year"), with quarterly accounting periods ending on or about March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, of each Fiscal Year (each a "Fiscal Quarter"). 7.14 Foreign Subsidiaries Security. If, following a change in the relevant sections of the Code or the regulations, rules, rulings, notices or other official pronouncements issued or promulgated thereunder, the Administrative Agent or Required Lenders provides Company with an opinion addressed to Company of counsel (selected by Company within 30 days after receiving the request of the Administrative Agent) that in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Company concludes that with respect to any Foreign Subsidiary that is a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Company which has not already had all of its stock pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreements that a pledge of 66 2/3% or more (in the case of a direct Foreign Subsidiary) or all (in the case of any indirect Foreign Subsidiary) of the total combined voting power of all classes of capital stock of such Foreign Subsidiary entitled to vote, would not cause any undistributed earnings of a Foreign Subsidiary as determined for United States Federal income tax purposes to be treated as a deemed dividend to a Foreign Subsidiary's United States parent for United States Federal income tax purposes, then that portion of such Foreign Subsidiary's outstanding capital stock not theretofore pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreements shall be pledged upon entering all necessary documents to Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant to the Pledge Agreements (or another pledge agreement in substantially similar form, if needed) to the extent that entering into such agreement is permitted by the laws of the respective foreign jurisdiction; provided, however, that the amount of additional stock that may be pledged pursuant to this Section 7.14 shall not exceed the amount of such stock that, in the opinion of such counsel, can be pledged without causing any such undistributed earnings of a Foreign Subsidiary to be treated as a deemed dividend. All reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders to obtain such an opinion shall be paid by Company. 7.15 Foreign Pension Plan Compliance. Company shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries and each member of the Controlled Group to, establish, maintain and operate all Foreign Pension Plans to comply in all material respects with all laws, regulations and rules applicable thereto and the respective requirements of the governing documents for such Plans, except for failures to comply which, in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to subject Company or any of its Subsidiaries to liability, individually or in the aggregate in excess of $20,000,000. ARTICLE VIII NEGATIVE COVENANTS Each Borrower hereby agrees, as to itself and its Subsidiaries, that, so long as any of the Commitments remain in effect or any Loan or LC Obligation remains outstanding and unpaid or any other amount is owing to any Lender or Administrative Agent hereunder: 8.1 Liens. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist or become a party to any agreement, note, indenture or other instrument pursuant to which such Person agrees to create, incur or assume any Lien in, upon or with respect to any of its properties or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except for the following Liens (herein referred to as "Permitted Liens"): (a) Liens created by the Loan Documents or otherwise securing the Obligations; (b) Customary Permitted Liens; (c) Liens existing on the date hereof listed on Schedule 8.1 hereto; (d) Liens on any property (including the interest of a lessee under a Capitalized Lease) securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing (or financing of the purchase price within 120 days after the respective purchase of assets) all or any part of the acquisition, construction, repair or improvement cost of such property (including Liens to which any property is subject at the time of acquisition thereof by Company or any of its Subsidiaries) provided that, (i) any such Lien does not extend to any other property, (ii) such Lien either exists on the date hereof or is created in connection with the acquisition, construction, repair or improvement of such property as permitted by this Agreement, (iii) the indebtedness secured by any such Lien, (or the Capitalized Lease Obligation with respect to any Capitalized Lease) does not exceed 100% of the fair market value of such assets and (iv) the Indebtedness secured thereby is permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 8.2(f); (e) Liens on any assets of any Person at the time such assets are acquired or such Person becomes a Subsidiary or is merged, amalgamated or consolidated with or into a Subsidiary and, in each case, not created in contemplation of or in connection with such event, provided that, (x) no such lien shall extend to or cover any other property or assets of any Borrower or of such Subsidiary, as the case may be, (y) the aggregate principal amount of the Indebtedness secured by all such Liens in respect of any such property or assets shall not exceed 100% of the fair market value of such property or assets at the time of such acquisition nor, in the case of a Lien in respect of property or assets existing at the time of such Person becoming a Subsidiary or being so consolidated or merged, the fair market value of the property or assets acquired at such time, and (z) the Indebtedness secured thereby is permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 8.2(g); (f) any Lien arising out of the replacement, refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of any Indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted by clauses (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h) of this Section, provided that, such Indebtedness is not increased and is not secured by any additional assets; (g) Liens on Receivables Facility Assets transferred in accordance with the terms of the Receivables Documents pursuant to a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization; (h) Liens incurred in connection with Sale-Leaseback transactions permitted under Section 8.9; (i) Liens securing Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries (including any refinancings of such Indebtedness), provided that, such Liens do not at any time encumber any Collateral or other assets located in the United States, the Dollar Equivalent amount of such indebtedness shall not exceed $25,000,000 in the aggregate at any one time outstanding; and (j) additional Liens incurred by Company and its Subsidiaries so long as, without duplication, the Dollar Equivalent of the value of the property subject to such Liens at the time such Lien is incurred and the Dollar Equivalent of the Indebtedness (including any refinancings of such Indebtedness) and other obligations secured thereby do not exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate at any time. In addition, no Borrower will nor permit any of its Subsidiaries to become a party to any agreement, note, indenture or other instrument, or take any other action, which would prohibit the creation of a Lien on any of its properties or other assets in favor of Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors, as collateral for the Obligations (other than in connection with a commitment to obtain Indebtedness which would be used to indefeasibly pay in full all Obligations outstanding hereunder and result in the termination of all Commitments hereunder), provided that, any agreement, note, indenture or other instrument in connection with Indebtedness permitted under Sections 8.2(d), (f), (g), (i), (j) and (n) may prohibit the creation of a Lien in favor of Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors on the items of property obtained with the proceeds of such Indebtedness. 8.2 Indebtedness. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, incur, create, assume directly or indirectly, or suffer to exist any Indebtedness except: (a) Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or otherwise evidencing any of the Obligations, including, without limitation, Additional Term Loans made pursuant to Section 2.9; (b) Receivables Facility Attributable Debt incurred in connection with a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitizations provided that (i) such Indebtedness related to Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitizations of Foreign Subsidiaries shall not exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $100,000,000 and (ii) such Indebtedness related to all Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitizations shall not exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $300,000,000; (c) Indebtedness evidenced by the 2012 Senior Notes, the 2006 Senior Notes and the 2008 Subordinated Notes; (d) Indebtedness of Company provided, that (1) the covenants, defaults and similar provisions applicable to such Indebtedness are no more restrictive in any material respect than the provisions contained in this Agreement and do not conflict in any material respect with this Agreement and are, taken as a whole, otherwise on market terms and conditions and (2) after giving effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness on a Pro Forma Basis for the period of four Fiscal Quarters ending with the Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have most recently been delivered (or were required to be delivered) pursuant to Section 7.1, no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default would exist hereunder and any refinancings of such Indebtedness that satisfies the provisions of this Section 8.2(d) (such Indebtedness being referred to herein as "Permitted Additional Indebtedness"); (e) Indebtedness under Interest Rate Agreements entered into to protect Borrowers or any of their Subsidiaries against fluctuations in interest rates in respect of the Obligations; (f) Indebtedness of Borrowers and their Subsidiaries (including any refinancings of such Indebtedness) secured by Liens permitted under Section 8.1(d), provided that, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness at any time together with the Dollar Equivalent of Indebtedness permitted to be outstanding pursuant to Sections 8.2(g) and (n) shall not exceed 5% of Company's Consolidated Tangible Assets as set forth on the last financial statements delivered by Company pursuant to Section 7.1; (g) Indebtedness of a Subsidiary of Company issued and outstanding on or prior to the date on which such Person becomes a Subsidiary or is merged, amalgamated or consolidated with or into a Subsidiary (other than Indebtedness issued as consideration in, or to provide all of any portion of the funds utilized to consummate, the transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which such Subsidiary became a Subsidiary or was acquired by Company) provided, that the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness at any time together with the Dollar Equivalent of Indebtedness permitted to be outstanding pursuant to Sections 8.2(f) and (n) shall not exceed 5% of Company's Consolidated Tangible Assets as set forth on the last financial statements delivered by Company pursuant to Section 7.1; (h) Indebtedness under Other Hedging Agreements providing protection against fluctuations in currency or commodity values in connection with any Borrowers' or any of their Subsidiaries' operations so long as management of such Borrower or any such Subsidiary, as the case may be, has determined that the entering into of such Other Hedging Agreements was for bona fide hedging activities; (i) Indebtedness of Borrowers or any of their Subsidiaries consisting of take-or-pay obligations contained in supply agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business; (j) Indebtedness outstanding on the date hereof and listed on Schedule 6.5(d) hereto; (k) Intercompany Indebtedness to the extent permitted by Section 8.7; provided, however, that in the event of any subsequent issuance or transfer of any Capital Stock which results in the holder of such Indebtedness ceasing to be a Subsidiary or Borrowers or any subsequent transfer of such Indebtedness (other than to Company or any of its Subsidiaries) such Indebtedness shall be required to be permitted under another clause of this Section 8.2; provided, further, however, that in the case of Intercompany Indebtedness consisting of a loan or advance to a Borrower, each such loan or advance outstanding at any time after December 23, 2002 shall be subordinated to the indefeasible payment in full of all of such Borrower's Obligations; (l) Indebtedness constituting Permitted Guarantee Obligations; (m) Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness with respect to Indebtedness described in clauses (c), (g), (j) and (n) of this Section 8.2; (n) Indebtedness in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted under Section 8.9; (o) Indebtedness in respect of obligations secured by Customary Permitted Liens; (p) Guarantee Obligations incurred by Company or any Subsidiary of obligations of any employee, officer or director of Company or any such Subsidiary in respect of loans made to such employee, officer or director in connection with such Person's acquisition of Capital Stock, phantom stock rights, capital appreciation rights or similar equity-like interests in Company or any such Subsidiary in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 outstanding at any one time; (q) Indebtedness (including any refinancings of such Indebtedness) incurred by Domestic Subsidiaries of Company in addition to that referred to elsewhere in this Section 8.2 in a principal amount not to exceed $75,000,000 in the aggregate; and (r) Indebtedness (including any refinancings of such Indebtedness) incurred by European Holdco, Canadian Borrower or any of their Subsidiaries in addition to that referred to elsewhere in this Section 8.2 in a Dollar Equivalent principal amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate. 8.3 Fundamental Changes. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, any Subsidiary (other than a Receivables Subsidiary) (i) may merge into Company in a transaction in which Company is the surviving corporation, (ii) may merge into any Credit Party in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Credit Party, (iii) that is not a Credit Party may merge into any Subsidiary that is not a Credit Party or any Person that becomes a Credit Party simultaneously with such merger, (iv) may merge into any other Person that becomes a Credit Party in connection with a Permitted Acquisition, (v) may liquidate or dissolve if Company determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of Company and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders, provided that, any such merger involving a Person that is not a Controlled Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger shall not be permitted unless also permitted by Section 8.7. Neither any Permitted Aerospace JV nor any member of the BAP Group shall enter into any merger or consolidation into or with Company or any of its Subsidiaries provided that a Permitted Aerospace JV may merge or consolidate with Company or any Subsidiary in a transaction that is a Permitted Acquisition. 8.4 Asset Sales. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, convey, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of (or become party to any agreement, note, indenture or other instrument pursuant to which such Person agrees to do any of the foregoing at any future time without Administrative Agent's prior written consent) all or any part of their property or assets, or enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, except that: (a) Company and its Subsidiaries may sell, contribute and make other transfers of Receivables Facility Assets pursuant to the Receivables Documents under a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization; (b) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may lease, including subleases and assignments of leases and subleases, real or personal property in the ordinary course of business; (c) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may sell Inventory in the ordinary course of business; (d) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may sell or discount, in each case without recourse and in the ordinary course of business, accounts receivable arising in the ordinary course of business (x) which are overdue, or (y) which such Borrower or Subsidiary may reasonably determine are difficult to collect but only in connection with the compromise or collection thereof consistent with prudent business practice (and not as part of any bulk sale or financing of receivables); (e) Company or any Subsidiary may make an Asset Disposition to Company or any Subsidiary (other than a Receivables Subsidiary); (f) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may enter into consignment arrangements (as consignor or as consignee) or similar arrangements for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business; (g) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may make Investments permitted pursuant to Section 8.7 and sell Investments referred to in clauses (a) and (i) of Section 8.7; (h) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may enter into licenses or sublicenses of software, trademarks and other Intellectual Property and general intangibles in the ordinary course of business and which do not materially interfere with the business of such Person; (i) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may enter into Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted under Section 8.9; (j) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may make Restricted Payments permitted pursuant to Section 8.5; (k) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may make dispositions in the ordinary course of business of equipment and other tangible personal property that is obsolete, uneconomical, worn-out, excess or no longer useful in the Company's and its Subsidiaries' business; (l) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may make dispositions of owned or leased vehicles in the ordinary course of business; (m) Company may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or part of the Aerospace Business (including the Capital Stock of any Permitted Aerospace JV) in one or more transactions; provided, that (1) each such transaction (x) other than to a Permitted Aerospace JV, is for consideration consisting of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of cash, (y) is for not less than fair market value (as determined by the board of directors of Company in good faith, whose determination shall be conclusive evidence thereof and shall be evidenced by a resolution of such board of directors set forth in a Responsible Officer of Company's certificate delivered to Administrative Agent), and (z) is consummated when no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, (2) Company's Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is less than the greater of (A) 3.0:1.0 and (B) the Leverage Ratio of Company and its Subsidiaries as of the last day of Company's most recently completed fiscal quarter as set forth on the Compliance Certificate delivered together with the financial statements for such fiscal quarter pursuant to Section 7.2(a), and (3) the Net Sale Proceeds of which therefrom shall be paid in accordance with Section 4.4(e); (n) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may make other Asset Dispositions for fair value, provided (A) 75% of the aggregate sales price from such Asset Disposition shall be paid in cash; and (B) that the aggregate book value (at the time of disposition thereof) of all assets then proposed to be disposed of together with all other assets disposed of in such Fiscal Year pursuant to this clause (n) does not exceed 10% of the Consolidated Assets of Company at such time measured as of the date of the last such sale in any Fiscal Year or together with all other assets disposed of since the Initial Borrowing Date pursuant to this clause (n), does not exceed 15% of the Consolidated Assets of Company at such time, in each case, measured as of the date of the last such sale based on the last financial statements delivered by Company pursuant to Section 7.1; provided, however, to the extent that the Net Sale Proceeds of any Asset Disposition that are not required to be used to prepay the Loans pursuant to Section 4.4(e) are used to purchase assets used or to be used in the businesses referred to in Section 8.11 in the time period prescribed in Section 4.4(e), and if Company or such Subsidiary has complied with the provisions of Section 7.12 with respect to any assets purchased with such reinvested proceeds, such Asset Disposition shall be disregarded for purposes of calculations pursuant to this Section 8.4(n) (and shall otherwise be deemed to be permitted under this Section 8.4(n)) to the extent of the reinvested proceeds, from and after the time of compliance with Section 7.12 with respect to the acquisition of such other property. In the event the Required Lenders waive the provisions of this Section 8.4 with respect to the sale of any Collateral, or any Collateral is sold as permitted by Section 8.4, such Collateral shall be sold free and clear of the Liens created by the Security Documents, and Administrative Agent shall be authorized to take any actions deemed appropriate in order to effect the foregoing. 8.5 Dividends or Other Distributions. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, either: (i) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on or in respect of its Capital Stock ("Dividend") or to the direct or indirect holders of its Capital Stock (except (A) dividends or distributions payable solely in such Capital Stock or in options, warrants or other rights to purchase such Capital Stock and (B) dividends, distributions or redemptions payable to (1) Company or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Company and (2) any other Subsidiary of Company in compliance with applicable corporation law; provided that the amount of such dividends or distributions under this clause (2) which are paid or made to any Person not a member of the Ball Corporate Group shall be included for purposes of calculating compliance with (a) below, and shall be permitted only to the extent they are permitted under clause (a) below) or (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value any Capital Stock of Borrowers other than in exchange for, or out of proceeds of, the substantially concurrent sale (other than to an Affiliate of any Borrower) of other Capital Stock of such Borrower or as permitted in (i)(B) above or (iii) purchase, defease, redeem, prepay, decrease or otherwise acquire or retire for value, prior to any scheduled final or stated maturity, any Indebtedness that is either subordinate or junior in right of payment to the Obligations (other than Intercompany Indebtedness subordinated as a result of Section 8.2(k)) or any Indebtedness issued in a public offering or pursuant to a 144A transaction with a final maturity on or after the 2008 Subordinated Note Acceleration Date, in each case, other than with the proceeds of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness or (iv) make any Restricted Investment; (any of the foregoing being hereinafter referred to as a "Restricted Payment"); provided, however, Company may make scheduled principal and interest payments on Indebtedness permitted pursuant to Section 8.2 in accordance with the terms of the documents governing such Indebtedness and make distributions to the extent necessary to enable Company or a Subsidiary of Company to pay their taxes as they legally become due, and; provided, further, that so long as no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom: (a) Company or any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Company may make any Restricted Payment which, together with all other Restricted Payments made pursuant to Section 8.5(b) since the date hereof would not exceed the sum of: (i) 50% of the Consolidated Net Income accrued during the period (treated as one accounting period) from December 31, 2002, to the end of the most recent Fiscal Quarter ending at least 45 days prior to the date of such Restricted Payment (or, in case such Consolidated Net Income shall be a deficit, minus 100% of such deficit), minus 100% of the amount of any write-downs, write-offs, other negative revaluations and other negative extraordinary charges not otherwise reflected in Consolidated Net Income during such period excluding, for all purposes of this clause (i), items treated as balance sheet adjustments in respect of foreign currency translations; (ii) the aggregate Net Offering Proceeds received by Company from the issue or sale of its Capital Stock subsequent to the date hereof (other than an issuance or sale to a Subsidiary or an employee stock ownership plan); (iii) to the extent that any Restricted Investment permitted hereunder and made after the date hereof shall be sold for cash during such period, the lesser of (x) the cash return of capital with respect to such Restricted Investment (net of the cost of disposition) and (y) the initial amount of such Restricted Investment; and (iv) $100,000,000; (b) Company may repurchase, redeem, acquire or retire for value Capital Stock of Company or any options therefor pursuant to any management equity subscription agreements, stock option plans or stock appreciation rights programs or owned by or for the benefit of any employees, former employees, directors or former directors, provided, that the aggregate amount expended pursuant to this clause (b) shall not exceed $15,000,000 in the aggregate in any Fiscal Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company may pay Dividends within 60 days after the date of declaration thereof if at such date of declaration such Dividend would have complied with this Section 8.5; provided, however, that such Dividend shall be included (without duplication) in the calculation of the amount of Restricted Payment for purpose of Section 8.5(a). 8.6 Issuance of Stock. (a) Company will not issue any Capital Stock, except for such issuances of Capital Stock of Company consisting of Common Stock or Permitted Preferred Stock. (b) No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, issue, sell, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any shares of Capital Stock of any Subsidiary of Company, except (i) to Company, (ii) to another Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Company, (iii) to qualify directors if required by applicable law or (iv) pursuant to employee stock ownership or employee benefit plans in effect on the date hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company and its Subsidiaries shall be permitted to sell (x) all or part of the Capital Stock of any Permitted Aerospace JV in one or more transactions in accordance with the terms of Section 8.4(m) and (y) 100% of the outstanding stock of any Subsidiary, but, except as set forth in clause (x), not less than 100% of such stock, subject to Section 8.4. 8.7 Loans, Investment and Acquisitions. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make any Investments or make any Acquisitions except: (a) Borrowers and their Subsidiaries may acquire and hold Cash and Cash Equivalents; (b) Investments existing on the date hereof identified on Schedule 8.7, without giving effect to any additions thereto or replacements thereof; (c) Investments required pursuant to the terms of the Domestic Receivables Purchase Documents and the European Receivables Purchase Documents; (d) Investments (including debt obligations) in trade receivables or received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of suppliers and customers and in settlement (including settlements of litigation) of delinquent obligations of, and other disputes with, customers and suppliers arising in the ordinary course of business; (e) Company may enter into Interest Rate Agreements in compliance with Sections 7.10 and 8.2(e) and Other Hedging Agreements in compliance with Section 8.2(h); (f) pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business; (g) Investments by Borrowers or any Subsidiary in Company or a Person that is a Subsidiary prior to such Investments, provided that, if applicable, the requirements of Section 7.12 are satisfied; (h) Borrowers or any Subsidiary may make Permitted Acquisitions; (i) Borrowers or any Subsidiary may acquire and hold debt securities and other non-cash consideration as consideration for an asset disposition permitted pursuant to Section 8.4; (j) Borrowers or any Subsidiary may make Restricted Investments permitted by Section 8.5, provided, that any Restricted Investment that is an Acquisition complies with clauses (a) through (d) of the definition of Permitted Acquisition; and (k) Investments, if any, resulting from transactions under the Manufacturing Supply Agreement; (l) Investments, in addition to those Investments identified on Schedule 8.7, in any member of the BAP Group; provided, however, such additional Investments together with the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate Investments pursuant to Section 8.7(m)(ii) shall not exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $75,000,000 in the aggregate after the Effective Date; (m) Investments in any Permitted Aerospace JV (i) consisting of all or part of the Aerospace Business; provided, that Company's Leverage Ratio on a Pro Forma Basis is less than 3.0:1.0 and (ii) additional Investments by Company and its Subsidiaries in any Permitted Aerospace JV provided however, such additional Investments together with the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate Investments pursuant to Section 8.7(l) shall not exceed the Dollar Equivalent of $75,000,000 in the aggregate after the Effective Date; (n) extensions of trade credit, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses in the ordinary course of business; (o) Investments in joint ventures provided, that such Investments shall not exceed $25,000,000 in the aggregate after the Effective Date; and (p) other Investments (other than in members of the BAP Group or a Permitted Aerospace JV) not in excess of $75,000,000 outstanding at any one time; provided, that any such Investment that is an Acquisition complies with clauses (a) through (d) of the definition of Permitted Acquisition. 8.8 Transactions with Affiliates. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries, any Permitted Aerospace JV or any member of the BAP Group to, conduct any business or enter into any transaction or series of similar transactions (including the purchase, sale, lease or exchange of any property or the rendering of any service) with any Affiliate of any Borrower (other than a Credit Party) unless the terms of such business, transaction or series of transactions are as favorable to such Borrower, such Subsidiary, such Permitted Aerospace JV or such member of the BAP Group as terms that would be obtainable at the time for a comparable transaction or series of similar transactions in arm's-length dealings with an unrelated third Person or, if such transaction is not one which by its nature could be obtained from such Person, is on fair and reasonable terms, provided that, the following shall be permitted: (v) the payment of customary fees to members of the Board of Directors, (w) transactions expressly permitted by Section 8.3 or Section 8.5, (x) transactions pursuant to Tax Sharing Agreements, (y) transactions pursuant to the Manufacturing Supply Agreement, and (z) Permitted Receivables Transfers and European Permitted Receivables Transfers. 8.9 Sale-Leasebacks. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, lease any property as lessee in connection with a Sale and Leaseback Transaction entered into after the Initial Borrowing Date unless such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is consummated within 120 days after the date that such Person acquires the property subject to such transaction and if, at the time of such entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and after giving effect thereto, the aggregate Dollar Equivalent amount of Attributable Debt for such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and for all Sale and Leaseback Transactions so entered into by Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, together with the Dollar Equivalent of Indebtedness permitted to be outstanding pursuant to Section 8.2(f) and (g) does not exceed 5% of Company's Consolidated Tangible Assets. 8.10 Restrictions on Credit Support to the BAP Group and any Permitted Aerospace JV. Other than Investments permitted pursuant to Section 8.7(l) and (m), neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall provide any type of credit support or credit enhancement to any member of the BAP Group or to any Permitted Aerospace JV, whether directly through loans to or Investments in, letters of credit issued for the benefit of any creditor of any member of the BAP Group or any Permitted Aerospace JV or guarantees or any other Contractual Obligation, contingent or otherwise, of Company or any of such Subsidiaries with respect to any Indebtedness or other obligation or liability of any member of the BAP Group or any Permitted Aerospace JV, including, without limitation, any such Indebtedness, obligation or liability, directly or indirectly guaranteed, supported by letter of credit, endorsed (other than for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business), co-made or discounted or sold with recourse, or in respect of which Company or any of its Subsidiaries is otherwise directly or indirectly liable, including contractual obligations (contingent or otherwise) arising through any agreement to purchase, repurchase, or otherwise acquire such Indebtedness, obligation or liability or any security therefor, or to provide funds for the payment or discharge thereof (whether in the form of loans, advances, stock purchases, capital contributions or otherwise), or to maintain solvency, assets, level of income, or other financial condition, or to make payment other than for value received. 8.11 Lines of Business. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to enter into or acquire any line of business which is not reasonably related or incidental to the business engaged in as of the date hereof. 8.12 Fiscal Year. Neither Company nor European Holdco will change its Fiscal Year. 8.13 Limitation on Voluntary Payments and Modifications of Indebtedness; Modifications of Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws and Certain Other Agreements; Certain Derivative Transactions, Etc. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to: (a) make (or give any notice in respect of) any voluntary or optional payment or prepayment on or redemption or acquisition for value of (including, without limitation, by way of depositing with the trustee with respect thereto or any other Person money or securities before due for the purpose of paying when due) any Indebtedness (other than Intercompany Indebtedness subordinated as a result of Section 8.2(k)) that is either subordinate or junior in right of payment to the Obligations, other than pursuant to the issuance of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; (b) amend, terminate or modify, or permit the amendment, termination or modification of, any provision of any documents governing Indebtedness described in clause (a) above in a manner materially adverse to the interests of the Lenders; (c) enter into any Receivables Documents other than in connection with a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization (unless such Receivables Documents have been approved by Administrative Agent or are non-material documentation entered into pursuant to such approved Receivables Documents) or amend or modify in any material respect which is adverse to the Lenders any of such Receivables Documents unless such amendment or modification has been approved by Administrative Agent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld); provided, however, that if the Receivables Documents, after giving effect to such amendment or modification, would constitute a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization, then such approval of Administrative Agent shall not be required. Neither any Permitted Aerospace JV nor any member of the BAP Group may be a Participating Subsidiary in a Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization; or (d) amend, modify or change in any way adverse to the interests of the Lenders, its Organizational Documents (including, without limitation, by filing or modification of any certificate of designation) or By-Laws, or any agreement entered into by it, with respect to its Capital Stock, or enter into any new agreement with respect to its Capital Stock in any manner materially adverse to the interests of the Lenders. (e) enter into or maintain outstanding any derivative transaction or similar transaction obligating any member of the Ball Corporate Group to make any payment (other than a payment which may only be made in Capital Stock) to any Person as a result of any change in value or market price of Capital Stock of Company provided that in order to facilitate its stock repurchase programs (i) Company may enter into and maintain forward purchase contracts for shares of its Capital Stock to the extent that an immediate purchase of such shares at such price would have been permitted under Section 8.5 on the date Company becomes obligated to so purchase such Capital Stock and on each day thereafter until so purchased and (ii) Company may enter into and maintain outstanding put contracts with respect to its Capital Stock to the extent that the aggregate maximum contingent obligation (assuming cash settlement) of all such contracts is not at any time in excess of the amount of Permitted Guarantee Obligations which could be incurred on such day. 8.14 Limitation on Certain Restrictions on Subsidiaries. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Material Subsidiaries, to create or otherwise cause or permit to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of any Borrower to (i) pay dividends or make any other distributions on its Capital Stock or pay any Indebtedness or other Obligation owed to Company or any of its other Subsidiaries, (ii) make any loans or advances to Company or any of its other Material Subsidiaries, or (iii) transfer any of its property to Company or any of its other Material Subsidiaries, except: (a) any encumbrance or restriction pursuant to the Loan Documents, the 2006 Senior Notes, the 2008 Subordinated Notes, the 2012 Senior Notes, any documents evidencing Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness with respect to any of the foregoing, any Permitted Accounts Receivable Securitization or an agreement in effect at or entered into on the Effective Date and reflected on Schedule 8.14(a) hereto; (b) any encumbrance or restriction with respect to a Subsidiary of Company pursuant to an agreement relating to any Indebtedness issued by such Subsidiary on or prior to the date on which such Subsidiary became a Subsidiary of Company or was acquired by Company (other than Indebtedness issued as consideration in, or to provide all or any portion of the funds utilized to consummate, the transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which such Subsidiary became a Subsidiary or was acquired by Company) and outstanding on such date; (c) any such encumbrance or restriction consisting of customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any leases governing leasehold interests of Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (d) any encumbrance or restriction existing solely as a result of a Requirement of Law; and (e) in the case of clause (iii) above, Permitted Liens or other restrictions contained in security agreements or Capitalized Leases securing or otherwise related to Indebtedness permitted hereby to the extent such restrictions restrict the transfer of the property subject to such security agreements. 8.15 Accounting Changes. No Borrower will nor will permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make any change in accounting policies affecting the presentation of financial statements from those employed by it on the date hereof, unless (i) such change is disclosed to the Lenders through Administrative Agent or otherwise and (ii) relevant prior financial statements that are affected by such change are restated (in form and detail satisfactory to Administrative Agent) as may be required by GAAP to show comparative results and (iii) Company delivers a report to Administrative Agent calculating all financial statements and other relevant financial terms without giving effect to such change. If any changes in GAAP or the application thereof from that used in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 6.5(a) hereof occur after the Initial Borrowing Date and such changes result in, in the sole judgment of Administrative Agent, a meaningful change in the calculation of any financial covenants or restrictions set forth in this Agreement, then the parties hereto agree to enter into and diligently pursue negotiations in order to amend such financial covenants and restrictions so as to equitably reflect such changes, with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating the financial condition and results of operations of Company and its Subsidiaries shall be the same after such changes as if such changes had not been made. ARTICLE IX FINANCIAL COVENANTS Company hereby agrees that, so long as any Commitments remain in effect or any Loan or LC Obligation remains outstanding and unpaid or any other amount is owing to any Lender or Administrative Agent hereunder, Company shall not: 9.1 Interest Coverage Ratio. Permit the Interest Coverage Ratio for the applicable Test Period ending on or about a date set forth below to be less than the ratio set forth opposite such date: Date Ratio ---- ----- March 31, 2003 4.00:1.0 June 30, 2003 4.00:1.0 September 30, 2003 4.00:1.0 December 31, 2003 4.00:1.0 March 31, 2004 4.00:1.0 June 30, 2004 4.00:1.0 September 30, 2004 4.00:1.0 December 31, 2004 4.00:1.0 March 31, 2005 4.00:1.0 June 30, 2005 4.00:1.0 September 30, 2005 4.00:1.0 December 31, 2005 and the last day 4.00:1.0 of each Fiscal Quarter thereafter 9.2 Leverage Ratio. Permit the Leverage Ratio for the applicable Test Period ending on or about a date set forth below to be greater than the ratio set forth opposite such date: Date Ratio ---- ----- March 31, 2003 4.00:1.0 June 30, 2003 4.00:1.0 September 30, 2003 4.00:1.0 December 31, 2003 4.00:1.0 March 31, 2004 4.00:1.0 June 30, 2004 4.00:1.0 September 30, 2004 3.75:1.0 December 31, 2004 3.75:1.0 March 31, 2005 3.50:1.0 June 30, 2005 3.50:1.0 September 30, 2005 3.25:1.0 December 31, 2005 and the last day 3.00:1.0 of each Fiscal Quarter thereafter 9.3 Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio. Permit the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the applicable Test Period ending on or about a date set forth below to be less than the ratio set forth opposite such date: Date Ratio ---- ----- March 31, 2003 1.10:1.0 June 30, 2003 1.10:1.0 September 30, 2003 1.10:1.0 December 31, 2003 1.15:1.0 March 31, 2004 1.15:1.0 June 30, 2004 1.15:1.0 September 30, 2004 1.15:1.0 December 31, 2004 1.20:1.0 March 31, 2005 1.20:1.0 June 30, 2005 1.20:1.0 September 30, 2005 1.20:1.0 December 31, 2005 and the last day 1.25:1.0 of each Fiscal Quarter thereafter ARTICLE X EVENTS OF DEFAULT 10.1 Events of Default. Any of the following events, acts, occurrences or state of facts shall constitute an "Event of Default" for purposes of this Agreement: (a) Failure to Make Payments When Due. Any Borrower (i) shall default in the payment of principal on any of the Loans, the face amount of any B/A Loan or any reimbursement obligation with respect to any Letter of Credit; or (ii) shall default in the payment of interest on any of the Loans or default in the payment of any fee or any other Obligation when due and such default in payment shall continue for five (5) Business Days; or (b) Representations and Warranties. Any representation or warranty made by any Credit Party, as the case may be, to Administrative Agent or any Lender contained in any Loan Document or certificate delivered to Administrative Agent or any Lender pursuant hereto or thereto shall have been incorrect in any material respect on the date as of when made or deemed made, or (c) Covenants. Any Credit Party shall (i) default in the performance or observance of any term, covenant, condition or agreement on its part to be performed or observed under Article VIII and Article IX hereof or Section 7.3(a) or (ii) default in the due performance or observance by it of any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to Company by Administrative Agent or any Lender; (d) Default Under Other Loan Documents. Any Credit Party shall default in the performance or observance of any term, covenant, condition or agreement on its part to be performed or observed hereunder or under any Loan Document (and not constituting an Event of Default under any other clause of this Section 10.1) and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice thereof has been given to Company by Administrative Agent; or (e) Voluntary Insolvency, Etc. Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall become insolvent or generally fail to pay, or admit in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, or shall voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law in any jurisdiction or seeking dissolution or reorganization or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, court appointed monitor, administrator, administrative receiver, liquidator or other similar official for it or a substantial portion of its property, assets or business or to effect a plan or other arrangement with its creditors, or shall file any answer admitting the jurisdiction of the court and the material allegations of an involuntary petition filed against it in any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding in any jurisdiction, or shall be adjudicated bankrupt, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall consent to, or acquiesce in the appointment of, a receiver, trustee, custodian, court appointed monitor, administrator, administrative receiver, liquidator or other similar official for a substantial portion of its property, assets or business, shall call a meeting of its creditors with a view to arranging a composition or adjustment of its debts or shall take any corporate action authorizing any of the foregoing; or (f) Involuntary Insolvency, Etc. Involuntary proceedings or an involuntary petition shall be commenced or filed against Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law in any jurisdiction or seeking the dissolution or reorganization of it or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, court appointed monitor, administrator, administrative receiver, liquidator or other similar official for it or of a substantial part of its property, assets or business, or to effect a plan or other arrangement with its creditors or any writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process shall be issued or levied against a substantial part of its property, assets or business, and such proceedings or petition shall not be dismissed, or such writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process shall not be released, vacated or fully bonded, within sixty (60) days after commencement, filing or levy, as the case may be, or any order for relief shall be entered in any such proceeding; or (g) Default Under Other Agreements. (i) Any Credit Party shall default in the payment when due, whether at stated maturity or otherwise, of any Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness owed to the Lenders under the Loan Documents) in excess of $20,000,000 in the aggregate beyond the period of grace, if any, provided in the instrument or agreement under which such Indebtedness was created, or (ii) a default shall occur in the performance or observance of any agreement or condition to any such Indebtedness or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which default or other event or condition is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders) to cause (determined without regard to whether any notice of acceleration or similar notice is required), any such Indebtedness to become due or be repaid prior to its stated maturity or (iii) any such Indebtedness of the Credit Parties shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid other than by a regularly scheduled required payment or prepayment, prior to the stated maturity thereof; or (h) Invalidity of Subordination Provisions. The subordination provisions of any agreement or instrument governing the 2008 Subordinated Notes, any other documents evidencing, guaranteeing or otherwise governing subordinated notes evidencing any Permitted Additional Indebtedness or any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness is for any reason revoked or invalidated, or otherwise ceases to be in full force and effect, any Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability thereof or denies that it has any further liability or obligation thereunder, or the Loans and the other Obligations hereunder entitled to receive the benefits of any Loan Document is for any reason subordinated or does not have the priority contemplated by this Agreement or such subordination provisions; or (i) Judgments. One or more judgments or decrees shall be entered against a Credit Party involving, individually or in the aggregate, a liability (to the extent not paid or covered by insurance) of $20,000,000 or more and shall not have been vacated, discharged, satisfied, stayed or bonded pending appeal within sixty (60) days from the entry thereof; or (j) Security Documents. At any time after the execution and delivery thereof, any of the Security Documents shall cease to be in full force and effect (other than due to the effect of applicable foreign law or action of any foreign government) or shall cease to give Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors the Liens, rights, powers and privileges purported to be created thereby (including, without limitation, a first priority perfected security interest in, and Lien on, all of the Collateral), in favor of Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors superior to and prior to the rights of all third Persons and subject to no other Liens (except to the extent expressly permitted herein or therein); or (k) Guaranties. Any Guaranty or any provision thereof shall (other than as a result of the actions taken by Administrative Agent or the Lenders to release such Guaranty) cease to be in full force and effect in accordance with its terms, or any Guarantor or any Person acting by or on behalf of such Guarantor shall deny or disaffirm such Guarantor's obligations under any Guaranty; or (l) ERISA. Either (i) any Termination Event shall have occurred, (ii) a trustee shall be appointed by a United States District Court to administer any Plan or Multiemployer Plan, (iii) the PBGC institutes proceedings to terminate any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan, (iv) Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall become liable to the PBGC or any other party under Section 4062, 4063 or 4064 of ERISA with respect to any Plan or (v) any Borrower or any Subsidiary of any Borrower fails to make a deficit reduction contribution required under Code Section 412(l) to any Plan by the due date for such contribution; if as of the date thereof or any subsequent date, the sum of each of Company's and its Subsidiaries' various liabilities (such liabilities to include, without limitation, any liability to the PBGC or to any other party under Section 4062, 4063 or 4064 of ERISA with respect to any Plan, or to any Multiemployer Plan under Section 4201 et seq. of ERISA) as a result of such events listed in subclauses (i) through (v) above exceeds $20,000,000 in the aggregate; or (m) Change of Control. A Change of Control shall occur; or (n) Dissolution. Any order, judgment or decree shall be entered against Company or any Material Subsidiary decreeing its involuntary dissolution or split up and such order shall remain undischarged and unstayed for a period in excess of sixty (60) days; or Company or any Material Subsidiary shall otherwise dissolve or cease to exist except as specifically permitted by this Agreement. If any of the foregoing Events of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, Administrative Agent, at the written direction of the Required Lenders, shall take one or more of the following actions: (i) by written notice to Borrowers declare the Total Commitments to be terminated whereupon the Total Commitments shall forthwith terminate, (ii) by written notice to Borrowers declare all sums then owing by Borrowers hereunder and under the Loan Documents to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon all such sums shall become and be immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by Borrowers or (iii) direct Borrowers to pay (and each Borrower agrees that upon receipt of such notice, or immediately and automatically upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default specified in Section 10.1(e) or Section 10.1(f) with respect to such Borrower it will pay) to Administrative Agent at the Payment Office such additional amount of cash, to be held as security by Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors, as is equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate Stated Amount of all Letters of Credit issued for the account of Company and its Subsidiaries and then outstanding and (b) the aggregate amount of all Unpaid Drawings, and (iv) enforce, as Administrative Agent the Guaranties and all of the Liens and security interests created pursuant to the Security Documents in accordance with their terms. In cases of any occurrence of any Event of Default described in Section 10.1(e) or Section 10.1(f) with respect to Company or European Holdco, the Loans, together with accrued interest thereon and all of the other Obligations, shall become immediately and automatically due and payable forthwith and the Total Commitments immediately and automatically terminated without the requirement of any such acceleration or request, and without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are expressly waived by each Borrower, any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding, and other amounts payable by Borrowers hereunder shall also become immediately and automatically due and payable all without notice of any kind. Anything in this Section 10.1 to the contrary notwithstanding, Administrative Agent shall, at the request of the Required Lenders, rescind and annul any acceleration of the Loans by written instrument filed with Borrowers, provided that, at the time such acceleration is so rescinded and annulled: (A) all past due interest and principal, if any, on the Loans and all other sums payable under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall have been duly paid, and (B) no other Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing which shall not have been waived in accordance with the provision of Section 12.1 hereof. 10.2 Rights Not Exclusive. The rights provided for in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights, powers, privileges or remedies provided by law or in equity, or under any other instrument, document or agreement now existing or hereafter arising. ARTICLE XI ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT In this Article XI, the Lenders agree among themselves as follows: 11.1 Appointment. The Lenders hereby appoint DB as Administrative Agent (for purposes of this Agreement, the term "Administrative Agent" shall include DB in its capacity as Collateral Agent pursuant to the Security Documents) and as Collateral Agent for the Secured Creditors under all applicable Security Documents and Guaranties and appoint TBNS as Canadian Administrative Agent (Administrative Agent and Canadian Administrative Agent are sometimes referred to in this Article XI as the "Agents", and individually as an "Agent") to act as herein specified herein and in the other Loan Documents. Each Lender hereby irrevocably authorizes and each holder of any Note by the acceptance of such Note shall be deemed to irrevocably authorize Agents to take such action on its behalf under the provisions hereof, the other Loan Documents (including, without limitation, to give notices and take such actions on behalf of the Required Lenders as are consented to in writing by the Required Lenders) and any other instruments, documents and agreements referred to herein or therein and to exercise such powers hereunder and thereunder as are specifically delegated to Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent by the terms hereof and thereof and such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Agents may perform any of their respective duties hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, by or through their officers, directors, agents, employees or affiliates. 11.2 Nature of Duties. Agents shall have no duties or responsibilities except those expressly set forth in this Agreement. The duties of Agents shall be mechanical and administrative in nature. EACH LENDER HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT EACH AGENT SHALL NOT HAVE, BY REASON OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, A FIDUCIARY RELATIONSHIP TO OR IN RESPECT OF ANY LENDER. Nothing in any of the Loan Documents, expressed or implied, is intended to or shall be so construed as to impose upon Agents any obligations in respect of any of the Loan Documents except as expressly set forth herein or therein. Each Lender shall make its own independent investigation of the financial condition and affairs of Borrowers in connection with the making and the continuance of the Loans hereunder and shall make its own appraisal of the credit worthiness of each Borrower, and Agents shall have no duty or responsibility, either initially or on a continuing basis, to provide any Lender with any credit or other information with respect thereto, whether coming into its possession before making of the Loans or at any time or times thereafter. Agents will promptly notify each Lender at any time that the Required Lenders have instructed it to act or refrain from acting pursuant to Article X. 11.3 Exculpation, Rights Etc. Neither Agents nor any of their respective officers, directors, agents employees or affiliates shall be liable for any action taken or omitted by them hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents, or in connection herewith or therewith, unless caused by its or their gross negligence or willful misconduct. Agents shall not be responsible to any Lender for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties herein or for the execution, effectiveness, genuineness, validity, enforceability, collectibility, or sufficiency of any of the Loan Documents or any other document or the financial condition of any Borrower. Agents shall not be required to make any inquiry concerning either the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions or conditions of this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents or any other Document or the financial condition of any Borrower, or the existence or possible existence of any Unmatured Event of Default or Event of Default unless requested to do so by the Required Lenders. Agents may at any time request instructions from the Lenders with respect to any actions or approvals (including the failure to act or approve) which by the terms of any of the Loan Documents, Agents are permitted or required to take or to grant, and if such instructions are requested, Agents shall be absolutely entitled to refrain from taking any action or to withhold any approval and shall not be under any liability whatsoever to any Person for refraining from any action or withholding any approval under any of the Loan Documents until it shall have received such instructions from the Required Lenders or all Lenders, as applicable. Without limiting the foregoing, no Lender shall have any right of action whatsoever against Agents as a result of Agents acting, approving or refraining from acting or approving under any of the Loan Documents in accordance with the instructions of the Required Lenders or, to the extent required by Section 12.1, all of the Lenders. 11.4 Reliance. Agents shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any notice, writing, resolution notice, statement, certificate, order or other document or any telephone, telex, teletype or telecopier message believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person, and, with respect to all matters pertaining herein or to any of the other Loan Documents and their duties hereunder or thereunder, upon advice of counsel selected by Agents. 11.5 Indemnification. To the extent Agents are not reimbursed and indemnified by Borrowers as required herein, the Lenders will reimburse and indemnify Agents for and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, claims, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against Agents, acting pursuant hereto in such capacity in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or any action taken or omitted by Agents under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, in proportion to each Lender's Aggregate Pro Rata Share of the Total Commitment; provided, however, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, claims, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The obligations of the Lenders under this Section 11.5 shall survive the payment in full of the Notes and the termination of this Agreement. For purposes hereof, "Aggregate Pro Rata Share" means, when used with reference to any Lender and any described aggregate or total amount, an amount equal to the result obtained by multiplying such desired aggregate or total amount by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the aggregate principal amount of such Lender's Multicurrency Revolving Loan, Canadian Revolving Loan and Term Loans and the denominator of which shall be the aggregate of all of the Loans outstanding hereunder. 11.6 Administrative Agent In Its Individual Capacity. With respect to its Loans and Commitments (and its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share, Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share and Term Pro Rata Share, as applicable, thereof), Agents shall have and may exercise the same rights and powers hereunder and are subject to the same obligations and liabilities as and to the extent set forth herein for any other Lender or holder of Obligations. The terms "Lenders", "holder of Obligations" or "Required Lenders" or any similar terms shall, unless the context clearly otherwise indicates, include Agents in their individual capacity as a Lender, one of the Required Lenders or a holder of Obligations. Agents may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust or other business with Company or any Subsidiary or affiliate of Company as if it were not acting as Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Document, including, without limitation, the acceptance of fees or other consideration for services without having to account for the same to any of the Lenders. 11.7 Notice of Default. Agents shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default hereunder unless such Agent has received written notice from a Lender or a Borrower referring to this Agreement describing such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default". In the event that either Agent receives such a notice, such Agent shall give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders. 11.8 Holders of Obligations. Agents may deem and treat the payee of any Obligation as reflected on the books and records of such Agent as the owner thereof for all purposes hereof unless and until a written notice of the assignment or transfer thereof shall have been filed with Agents pursuant to Section 12.8(c). Any request, authority or consent of any Person who, at the time of making such request or giving such authority or consent, is the holder of any Obligation shall be conclusive and binding on any subsequent holder, transferee or assignee of such Obligation or of any Obligation or Obligations granted in exchange therefor. 11.9 Resignation by Administrative Agent. (a) Agents may resign from the performance of all its functions and duties hereunder at any time by giving fifteen (15) Business Days' prior written notice to Company and the Lenders. Such resignation shall take effect upon the acceptance by a successor Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent of appointment pursuant to clauses (b) and (c) below or as otherwise provided below. (b) Upon any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall appoint a successor Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent who shall be satisfactory to Company and shall be an incorporated bank or trust company. (c) If a successor Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent shall not have been so appointed within said fifteen (15) Business Day period, Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent with the consent of Company, shall then appoint a successor Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent who shall serve as Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders, with the consent of Company, appoint a successor Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent as provided above. (d) If no successor Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent has been appointed pursuant to clause (b) or (c) by the twentieth (20th) Business Day after the date such notice of resignation was given by Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, such Agent's resignation shall become effective and the Required Lenders shall thereafter perform all the duties of Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders, with the consent of Company, appoint a successor Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent as provided above. 11.10 The Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers, Joint Book Managers, Syndication Agent and Co-Documentation Agents. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or any provision of any other Loan Document, each of the Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers, Joint Book Managers, Syndication Agent and Co-Documentation Agents are named as such for recognition purposes only, and in their respective capacities as such shall have no powers, duties, responsibilities or liabilities with respect to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby; it being understood and agreed that the Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers, Joint Book Managers, Syndication Agent and Co-Documentation Agents shall be entitled to all indemnification and reimbursement rights in favor of "Agents" as provided for under Section 11.5. Without limitation of the foregoing, none of Joint Lead Arrangers, Joint Mandated Arrangers, Joint Book Managers, Syndication Agent or Co-Documentation Agents shall, solely by reason of this Agreement or any other Loan Documents, have any fiduciary relationship in respect of any Lender or any other Person. ARTICLE XII MISCELLANEOUS 12.1 No Waiver; Modifications in Writing. (a) No failure or delay on the part of Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or remedy preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies provided for herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies that may be available to Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender at law or in equity or otherwise. Neither this Agreement nor any terms hereof may be amended, modified, supplemented, waived, discharged, terminated or otherwise changed unless such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver, discharge, termination or other change is in writing signed by Company, European Holdco and the Required Lenders, provided that, no such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver, discharge, termination or other change shall, without the consent of each Lender (other than a Defaulting Lender) (with Obligations directly affected thereby in the case of the following clause (i)): (i) extend the final scheduled maturity of any Loan or Note (or extend the stated maturity of any Letter of Credit beyond the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date), or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest or fees thereon except for waivers of Default Rate interest, or reduce the principal amount thereof or extend the time of payment or reduce the amount of any other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document, (ii) release all or substantially all of the Guarantors or all or substantially all of the Collateral (except as expressly provided in the Security Documents), (iii) amend, modify or waive any provision of this Section 12.1 (except for technical amendments with respect to additional extensions of credit pursuant to Section 2.9 which afford the protections to such additional extensions of credit of the type provided to the Term Loans on the date hereof) or reduce any percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders, (iv) consent to the assignment or transfer by any Borrower of any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement; provided, further, that no such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver, discharge, termination or other change shall: (A) increase the Commitments of any Lender over the amount thereof then in effect without the consent of such Lender (it being understood that waivers or modifications of the definition of Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit, Schedule 1.1(c), conditions precedent, representations, warranties, covenants, Events of Default or Unmatured Events of Default shall not constitute an increase of the Commitment of any Lender, and that an increase in the available portion of any Commitment of any Lender shall not constitute an increase in the Commitment of such Lender), (B) without the consent of DB and each Facing Agent that has issued an outstanding Letter of Credit, amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 2.10 or alter its rights or obligations with respect to Letters of Credit, (C) without the consent of Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent amend, modify or waive any provision of Article XI as same applies to Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent or any other provisions as same relates to the rights or obligations of Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, (D) without the consent of Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, amend, modify or waive any provisions relating to the rights or obligations of Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent under the other Loan Documents, (E) without the consent of the Majority Lenders of each Facility which is being allocated a lesser prepayment, repayment or commitment reduction, alter the required application of any prepayments or repayments (or commitment reduction), as between the various Facilities pursuant to clause (i) of the first sentence of Section 4.5(a) and the second and third sentence of Section 4.5(a) (although the Required Lenders may waive in whole or in part, any such prepayment, repayment or commitment reduction so long as the application, as amongst the various Facilities, of any such prepayment, repayment or commitment reduction which is still required to be made is not altered), (F) without the consent of the Majority Lenders of each Facility amend the definition of Majority Lenders, (G) without the consent of the Majority Lenders of the Term Facilities affected thereby, amend the definition of Term Pro Rata Share; (H) without the consent of the Supermajority Lenders of the Facilities affected thereby, amend the definition of Supermajority Lenders; (I) without the consent of the Majority Lenders of the Multicurrency Revolving Facility, amend the definition of Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share; without the consent of the Majority Lenders of the Canadian Revolving Facility, amend the definition of Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share, (J) without the consent of the Majority Lenders of the Multicurrency Revolving Facility, amend the definition of Multicurrency Revolver Sublimits or, except as provided in Section 12.1(b), Schedule 1.1(b); or (K) without the consent of the Supermajority Lenders of the applicable Facility, amend the definition of Scheduled Term Repayments for such Facility. (b) In addition to the amendments effected pursuant to the foregoing Section 12.1(a), Schedules 1.1(b), and 1.1(d) may be amended as follows: (i) Schedules 1.1(b) and (d) will be amended to add Foreign Subsidiaries of Company as additional Subsidiary Borrowers upon (A) execution and delivery by Company, any such Subsidiary Borrower and Administrative Agent of a Joinder Agreement in the form of Exhibit 12.1(b), providing for a Multicurrency Revolver Sublimit acceptable to Administrative Agent, (B) delivery to Administrative Agent of (1) to the extent not previously delivered, the pledge and guarantee agreements required pursuant to Sections 7.12 and 7.14, (2) an opinion of counsel which covers the matters set forth in Exhibit 5.1(d)(ii) with such exceptions as are reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent and (3) such other documents with respect thereto as Administrative Agent shall reasonably request. (ii) Schedules 1.1(b) and (d) will be amended to remove any Subsidiary as a Subsidiary Borrower upon (A) execution and delivery by Company of a written request providing for such amendment and (B) repayment in full of all outstanding Loans and other Obligations of such Subsidiary Borrower. (c) If, in connection with any proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination of any of the provisions of this Agreement as contemplated by clauses (a)(i) through (iv), inclusive, of the first proviso to the third sentence of Section 12.1(a), the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained but the consent of one or more of such other Lenders whose consent is required is not obtained, then the applicable Borrower shall have the right to replace each such non-consenting Lender or Lenders (or, at the option of Borrowers if the respective Lender's consent is required with respect to less than all Loans and/or Commitments, to replace only the respective Loans and/or Commitments of the respective non-consenting Lender which gave rise to the need to obtain such Lender's individual consent) with one or more Replacement Lenders pursuant to Section 3.7 so long as at the time of such replacement, each such Replacement Lender consents to the proposed amendment, modification, supplement. waiver, discharge, termination or other change. (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the execution and delivery of all documentation required by Administrative Agent to be delivered pursuant to Section 2.9 in connection with an Additional Term Loan, this Agreement shall be deemed amended without further action by any Lender to reflect, as applicable, the new Lenders and the terms of such Additional Term Loan. 12.2 Further Assurances. Each Borrower agrees to do such further acts and things and to execute and deliver to Administrative Agent and Canadian Administrative Agent such additional agreements, powers and instruments, as Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent may reasonably require or reasonably deem advisable to carry into effect the purposes of this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents or to better assure and confirm unto Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent its rights, powers and remedies hereunder. 12.3 Notices, Etc. Except where telephonic instructions or notices are authorized herein to be given, all notices, demands, instructions and other communications required or permitted to be given to or made upon any party hereto or any other Person shall be in writing and shall be personally delivered or sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or by a reputable overnight or courier delivery service, or by prepaid telex or telecopier, and shall be deemed to be given for purposes of this Agreement on the third day after deposit in registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, and otherwise on the date that such writing is delivered or sent to the intended recipient thereof, or in the case of notice delivered by telecopy, upon completion of transmission with a copy of such notice also being delivered under any of the methods provided above, all in accordance with the provisions of this Section 12.3. Unless otherwise specified in a notice sent or delivered in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 12.3, notices, demands, instructions and other communications in writing shall be given to or made upon the respective parties hereto at their respective addresses (or to their respective telex, TWX or telecopier numbers) indicated on Schedule 12.3 hereto or, in the case of any Assignee, on its signature page to its Assignment and Assumption Agreement and, in the case of telephonic instructions or notices, by calling the telephone number or numbers indicated for such party on Schedule 12.3 hereto or such Assignment and Assumption Agreement, as the case may be. 12.4 Costs, Expenses and Taxes; Indemnification. (a) Generally. Company and European Holdco, if any, agree jointly and severally to pay promptly upon request by Administrative Agent (or any Lender, in connection with any enforcement or atonement as provided below) all reasonable costs and expenses in connection with the negotiation, preparation, printing, typing, reproduction, execution, delivery and syndication of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and the documents and instruments referred to herein and therein and any amendment, waiver, consent relating hereto or thereto or other modifications of (or supplements to) any of the foregoing and any and all other documents and instruments furnished pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith, including without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of Winston & Strawn, special counsel to Administrative Agent, and any local counsel retained by Administrative Agent relative thereto, other Attorney Costs, independent public accountants and other outside experts retained by Administrative Agent in connection with the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and all reasonable search fees, appraisal fees and expenses, filing and recording fees and all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, Attorney Costs), if any, in connection with the enforcement of this Agreement, any of the Loan Documents or any other agreement furnished pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith. In addition, Company and European Holdco agree jointly and severally to pay any and all present and future stamp, transfer, excise and other similar taxes payable or determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, any Loan Document, or the making of any Loan, and each agrees to save and hold Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent and each Lender harmless from and against any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay by any Borrower in paying, or omission by any Borrower to pay, such taxes. Any portion of the foregoing fees, costs and expenses which remains unpaid more than thirty (30) days following Administrative Agent's, Canadian Administrative Agent's or any Lender's statement and the due date thereof shall bear interest from the date of such due date at the Default Rate. (b) Indemnification. Company and European Holdco agree jointly and severally to indemnify and hold harmless DBSI, Syndication Agent, Co-Documentation Agents, Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent and each Lender and each director, officer, employee, agent, attorney and Affiliate of DBSI, Syndication Agent, Co-Documentation Agents, Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent and each Lender (each such Person an "Indemnified Person" and collectively, the "Indemnified Persons") from and against all losses, claims, damages, obligations (including removal or remedial actions), reasonable expenses or liabilities (not including Excluded Taxes and Taxes as to which Borrowers are not required to make any payment of additional amounts pursuant to Section 4.7(c) hereof) to which such Indemnified Person may become subject, insofar as such losses, claims, damages, penalties, obligations (including removal or remedial actions), reasonable expenses or liabilities (or actions, suits or proceedings including any investigation or claims in respect thereof (whether or not Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender is a party thereto)) arise out of, in any way relate to, or result from the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents and to reimburse each Indemnified Person upon their demand, for any Attorney Costs or other reasonable expenses incurred in connection with investigating, preparing to defend or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action or claim; provided, however, (i) that no Indemnified Person shall have the right to be so indemnified hereunder for any loss, claim, damage, penalties, obligations, expense or liability to the extent it arises or results from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person or from such Indemnified Person's breach of its obligations under this Agreement as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction and (ii) that nothing contained herein shall affect the express contractual obligations of the Lenders to Borrowers contained herein. If any action, suit or proceeding arising from any of the foregoing is brought against Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person indemnified or intended to be indemnified pursuant to this Section 12.4, Company and European Holdco will, if requested by Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent, any Lender or any such Indemnified Person, resist and defend such action, suit or proceeding or cause the same to be resisted and defended by counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Person or Persons indemnified or intended to be indemnified. The Indemnified Persons shall, unless Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent, a Lender or other Indemnified Person has made the request described in the preceding sentence and such request has been complied with, have the right to employ their own counsel (or (but not as well as) staff counsel) to investigate and control the defense of any matter covered by such indemnity and the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party; provided, however, that in any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, Company and European Holdco shall not be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel), which counsel shall be designated by Administrative Agent provided, further, however, each Indemnified Person shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such inquiry, action, claim or proceeding and to control the defense thereof, and the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of Company and European Holdco if (i) Company and European Holdco shall have agreed in writing to pay such fees and expenses or (ii) such Indemnified Person shall have notified Company and European Holdco that it has been advised by counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to such Indemnified Person that are different from or additional to those available to the other Indemnified Persons and that such common representation would adversely impact the adequacy of the proposed representation. Excluding any loss, cost, liability or damage arising out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Indemnified Person as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final non-appealable judgment, Company and European Holdco further agree jointly and severally to indemnify and hold each Indemnified Person harmless from all loss, reasonable cost (including Attorney Costs), liability and damage whatsoever incurred by any Indemnified Person by reason of any violation of any Environmental Laws or Environmental Permits or for the Release or Threatened Release of any Contaminants into the environment for which Company or any of its Subsidiaries has any liability or which is related to any property currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by or on behalf of Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or by reason of the imposition of any Environmental Lien or which occurs by a breach of any of the representations, warranties or covenants relating to environmental matters contained herein, provided that, with respect to any liabilities arising from acts or failure to act for which Company or any of its Subsidiaries is strictly liable under any Environmental Law or Environmental Permit, Company's and European Holdco's obligation to each Indemnified Person under this indemnity shall likewise be without regard to fault on the part of Company or any such Subsidiary. To the extent that the undertaking to indemnify, pay or hold harmless Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent, any Lender or other Indemnified Person as set forth in this Section 12.4 may be unenforceable because it is violative of any law or public policy, Company shall make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction of each of the indemnified liabilities which is permissible under applicable law. The obligations of Company and European Holdco under this Section 12.4 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the discharge of Company's and European Holdco's other Obligations hereunder. (c) Foreign Exchange Indemnity. If any sum due from any Borrower under this Agreement or any order or judgment given or made in relation hereto has to be converted from the currency (the "first currency") in which the same is payable hereunder or under such order or judgment into another currency (the "second currency") for the purpose of (i) making or filing a claim or proof against any Borrower with any Governmental Authority or in any court or tribunal, or (ii) enforcing any order or judgment given or made in relation hereto, Company and European Holdco shall indemnify and hold harmless each of the Persons to whom such sum is due from and against any loss actually suffered as a result of any discrepancy between (a) the rate of exchange used to convert the amount in question from the first currency into the second currency, and (b) the rate or rates of exchange at which such Person, acting in good faith in a commercially reasonable manner, purchased the first currency with the second currency after receipt of a sum paid to it in the second currency in satisfaction, in whole or in part, of any such order, judgment, claim or proof. The foregoing indemnity shall constitute a separate obligation of Company and European Holdco distinct from its other obligations hereunder and shall survive the giving or making of any judgment or order in relation to all or any of such other obligations. 12.5 Confirmations. Each Borrower and each holder of any portion of the Obligations agrees from time to time, upon written request received by it from the other, to confirm to the other in writing (with a copy of each such confirmation to Administrative Agent) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loan or Loans and other Obligations then outstanding. 12.6 Adjustment; Setoff. (a) If any lender (a "Benefited Lender") shall at any time receive any payment of all or part of its Loans, or interest thereon, or receive any collateral in respect thereof (whether voluntarily or involuntarily, by setoff, pursuant to events or proceedings of the nature referred to in Section 10.1(e) or Section 10.1(f) hereof, or otherwise) in a greater proportion than any such payment to and collateral received by any other Lender in respect of such other Lender's Loans or interest thereon, such Benefited Lender shall purchase for cash from the other Lenders such portion of each such other Lender's Loans, or shall provide such other Lenders with the benefits of any such collateral, or the proceeds thereof, as shall be necessary to cause such Benefited Lender to share the excess payment or benefits of such collateral or proceeds ratably with each Lender; provided, however, that if all or any portion of such excess payment or benefits is thereafter recovered from such Benefited Lender, such purchase shall be rescinded, and the purchase price and benefits returned, to the extent of such recovery, but without interest. Each Borrower agrees that each Lender so purchasing a portion of another Lender's Loans may exercise all rights of payment (including, without limitation, rights of setoff) with respect to such portion as fully as if such Lender were the direct holder of such portion. (b) In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders provided by law, each Lender shall have the right, without prior notice to Borrowers, any such notice being expressly waived by Borrowers, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, to setoff and apply against any Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, of any Borrower or any Credit Party to such Lender, any amount owing from such Lender to such Borrower or Credit Party, at or at any time after, the happening of any of the above-mentioned events, and the aforesaid right of setoff may be exercised by such Lender against any Borrower or Credit Party or against any trustee in bankruptcy, debtor in possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receivers, administrator, administrative receiver, court appointed monitor or other similar official, or execution, judgment or attachment creditor of such Borrower or Credit Party, or against anyone else claiming through or against, such Borrower or Credit Party or such trustee in bankruptcy, debtor in possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receivers, administrator, administrative receiver, court appointed monitor or other similar official, or execution, judgment or attachment creditor, notwithstanding the fact that such right of setoff shall not have been exercised by such Lender prior to the making, filing or issuance, or service upon such Lender of, or of notice of, any such petition, assignment for the benefit of creditors, appointment or application for the appointment of a receiver, administrator, administrative receiver, court appointed monitor or other similar official, or issuance of execution, subpoena, order or warrant. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify Company and Administrative Agent after any such setoff and application made by such Lender, provided that, the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application. (c) Each Borrower expressly agrees that to the extent such Borrower makes a payment or payments and such payment or payments, or any part thereof, are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or are required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver, administrator, administrative receiver, court appointed monitor or other similar official, or any other party under any bankruptcy act, state or federal law, common law, rule, regulation or equitable cause in any jurisdiction, then to the extent of such payment or repayment, the Indebtedness to the Lenders or part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if said payment or payments had not been made. 12.7 Execution in Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to be an original and all of which counterparts, taken together, shall constitute but one and the same Agreement. 12.8 Binding Effect; Assignment; Addition and Substitution of Lenders. (a) This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, Borrowers, Administrative Agent, the Lenders, all future holders of the Notes and their respective successors and assigns; provided, however, that no Borrower may assign its rights or obligations hereunder or in connection herewith or any interest herein (voluntarily, by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the Lenders. (b) Each Lender may at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("Participants") participating interests in all or any portion of its Commitment and Loans or participation in Letters of Credit or any other interest of such Lender hereunder (in respect of any Lender, its "Credit Exposure"). In the event of any such sale by a Lender of participating interests to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible for the performance thereof, and Borrowers, Canadian Administrative Agent and Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. At the time of the sale of a participating interest, the Lender transferring the interest (i) shall cause the Participant to provide the forms required under Section 4.7(d) as if such Participant became a Lender on the date of the sale and (ii) shall, if required under applicable law, deliver revised forms in accordance Section 4.7(d) reflecting the portion of the interest sold and the portion of the interest retained. Further, the Participant shall be subject to the obligations of Section 3.6 and Section 4.7 as if such Participant was a Lender. Each Borrower agrees that if amounts outstanding under this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents are due or unpaid, or shall have been declared or shall have become due and payable upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, each Participant shall be deemed to have the right of setoff in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under this Agreement and the Loan Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Lender under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; provided, however, that such right of setoff shall be subject to the obligation of such Participant to share with the Lenders, and the Lenders agree to share with such Participant, as provided in Section 12.6. Each Borrower also agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 3.6 and Section 4.7 with respect to its participation in the Loans outstanding from time to time, as if such Participant becomes a Lender on the date it acquired an interest pursuant to this Section 12.8(b); provided that, no participation shall be made to any Person under this section if, at the time of such participation, the Participant's benefits under Section 3.6 or Section 4.7 would be greater than the benefits that the participating Lender was entitled to under Section 3.6 or Section 4.7 (and if any participation is made in violation of the foregoing, the Participant will not be entitled to the incremental amounts). Each Lender agrees that any agreement between such Lender and any such Participant in respect of such participating interest shall not restrict such Lender's right to approve or agree to any amendment, restatement, supplement or other modification to, waiver of, or consent under, this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents except to the extent that any of the forgoing would (i) extend the final scheduled maturity of any Loan or Note in which such Participant is participating (it being understood that amending the definition of any Scheduled Term Repayment (other than any Term Maturity Date), shall not constitute an extension of the final scheduled maturity of any Loan or Note) or extend the stated maturity of any Letter of Credit in which such Participant is participating beyond the Multicurrency Revolver Termination Date, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest or fees on any such Loan, Note or Letter of Credit (except in connection with a waiver of applicability of any post-default increase in interest rates) or reduce the principal amount thereof, or increase the amount of the Participant's participation over the amount thereof then in effect (it being understood that waivers or modifications of conditions precedent, covenants, representations, warranties, Events of Default or Unmatured Events of Default or of a mandatory reduction in Commitments shall not constitute a change in the terms of such participation, and that an increase in any Commitment or Loan shall be permitted without the consent of any Participant if the Participant's participation is not increased as a result thereof), (ii) consent to the assignment or transfer by any Borrower of any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement or (iii) release all or substantially all of the Collateral under all of the Security Documents (except as expressly provided in the Loan Documents) supporting the Loans and/or Letters of Credit hereunder in which such Participant is participating. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to any CAM Exchange, no Lender shall sell participations of Canadian Revolving Loans or Canadian Revolving Commitments to any Person that is not a resident of Canada for purpose of the ITA or is not deemed to be resident in Canada for the purposes of Part XIII of the ITA. (c) Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more Eligible Assignees, including an Affiliate thereof (each an "Assignee"), all or any part of its Credit Exposure pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement, provided that no assignment shall be made to any Person under this Section 12.8(c) if, at the time of such assignment, the Assignee's benefits under Section 3.6 or Section 4.7 would be greater than the benefits that the assigning Lender was entitled to under Section 3.6 or Section 4.7 (and if any assignment is made in violation of the foregoing, the Assignee will not be entitled to the incremental amounts) and provided, further, that, any assignment of all or any portion of any Lender's Credit Exposure to an Assignee other than an Affiliate of such Lender or another Lender, or in the case of a Lender that is a Fund, any Related Fund of any Lender (i) shall be an assignment of its Credit Exposure in an amount not less than the Dollar Equivalent of $5,000,000 for the Multicurrency Revolving Loan Facility or Canadian Revolving Facility and $1,000,000 for the Term Facilities (treating any Fund and its Related Funds as a single Eligible Assignee) (or if less the entire amount of Lender's Credit Exposure with respect to such Facility, provided, that, if such Lender and its Affiliates (or in the case of a Fund and its Related Funds) collectively hold Credit Exposure at least equal to such minimum amounts, such Affiliates and/or Related Funds must simultaneously assign Credit Exposure such that the aggregate Credit Exposure assigned satisfies such minimum amount) and (ii) shall require the prior written consent of Administrative Agent (not to be unreasonably withheld) and, provided no Event of Default then exists and is continuing, Company (the consent of Company not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, however, that prior to the Syndication Date, assignments by Administrative Agents shall not require the consent of Company), and; provided, further, that notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, any Lender may at any time assign all or any part of its Credit Exposure to any Affiliate of such Lender or to any other Lender (or in the case of a Lender which is a Fund, to any Related Fund of such Lender). Upon execution of an Assignment and Assumption Agreement and the payment of a nonrefundable assignment fee of $3,500 (provided that no such fee shall be payable upon assignments by any Lender which is a Fund to one or more Related Funds) in immediately available funds to Administrative Agent at its Payment Office in connection with each such assignment, written notice thereof by such transferor Lender to Administrative Agent and the recording by Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent of such assignment and the resulting effect upon the Loans and Multicurrency Revolving Commitment and Canadian Revolving Commitment of the assigning Lender and the Assignee, the Assignee shall have, to the extent of such assignment, the same rights, benefits and obligations as it would have if it were a Lender hereunder and the holder of the Obligations (provided that Company, Canadian Administrative Agent and Administrative Agent shall be entitled to continue to deal solely and directly with the assignor Lender in connection with the interests so assigned to the Assignee until written notice of such assignment, together with payment instructions, addresses and related information with respect to the Assignee, shall have been given to Company, Canadian Administrative Agent and Administrative Agent by the assignor Lender and the Assignee) and, if the Assignee has expressly assumed, for the benefit of Borrowers, some or all of the transferor Lender's obligations hereunder, such transferor Lender shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder to the extent of such assignment and assumption, and except as described above, no further consent or action by Company, the Lenders, Canadian Administrative Agent or Administrative Agent shall be required. At the time of each assignment pursuant to this Section 12.8(c) to a Person which is not already a Lender hereunder, the respective Assignee shall provide to Company and Administrative Agent the appropriate forms and certificates as provided in Section 4.7(d), if applicable. Each Assignee shall take such Credit Exposure subject to the provisions of this Agreement and to any request made, waiver or consent given or other action taken hereunder, prior to the receipt by Administrative Agent and Company of written notice of such transfer, by each previous holder of such Credit Exposure. Such Assignment and Assumption Agreement shall be deemed to amend this Agreement and Schedule 1.1(a) hereto, to the extent, and only to the extent, necessary to reflect the addition of such Assignee as a Lender and the resulting adjustment of all or a portion of the rights and obligations of such transferor Lender under this Agreement, the Maximum Commitment, the determination of its Term Pro Rata Share, Canadian Revolver Pro Rata Share or Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share, as the case may be (in each case, rounded to twelve decimal places), the Loans, any outstanding Letters of Credit and any new Notes, if requested, to be issued, at Borrowers' expense, to such Assignee, and no further consent or action by Company or the Lenders shall be required to effect such amendments. (d) Each Borrower authorizes each Lender to disclose to any Participant or Assignee (each, a "Transferee") and any prospective Transferee any and all financial information in such Lender's possession concerning Company and any Subsidiary of Company which has been delivered to such Lender by any Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or which has been delivered to such Lender by any Borrower in connection with such Lender's credit evaluation of such Borrower prior to entering into this Agreement, provided that, such Transferee or prospective Transferee agrees to treat any such information which is not public as confidential in accordance with the terms of Section 12.18 hereof. (e) Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Lender may at any time pledge or assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including, without limitation, the Notes held by it, but excluding prior to any CAM Exchange, all or any portion of its rights related to Canadian Revolving Loans, including without limitation, the Canadian Revolving Note held by it, if any) to any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Federal Reserve Board without notice to, or the consent of, any Borrower, provided that, no such pledge or assignment of a security interest under this Section 12.8(e) shall release a Lender from any obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. Any Lender which is a fund may pledge all or any portion of its Notes or Loans to its trustee in support of its obligations to its trustee. No such pledge or assignment shall release the transferor Lender from its obligations hereunder. 12.9 CONSENT TO JURISDICTION; MUTUAL WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. (a) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK OR COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND, BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH CREDIT PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY ACCEPTS FOR ITSELF AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, GENERALLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY, THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE AFORESAID COURTS. EACH CREDIT PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY DESIGNATES, APPOINTS AND EMPOWERS CT CORPORATION SYSTEM WITH OFFICES ON THE DATE HEREOF AT 111 EIGHTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10011 AS ITS DESIGNEE, APPOINTEE AND ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT TO RECEIVE, ACCEPT AND ACKNOWLEDGE FOR AND ON ITS BEHALF, AND IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL LEGAL PROCESS, SUMMONS, NOTICES AND DOCUMENTS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING. IF FOR ANY REASON SUCH DESIGNEE, APPOINTEE AND ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT SHALL CEASE TO BE AVAILABLE TO ACT AS SUCH, EACH CREDIT PARTY AGREES TO DESIGNATE A NEW DESIGNEE, APPOINTEE AND ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT IN NEW YORK CITY ON THE TERMS AND FOR THE PURPOSES OF THIS PROVISION REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT UNDER THIS AGREEMENT. EACH CREDIT PARTY FURTHER IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO THE SERVICE OF PROCESS OUT OF ANY OF THE AFOREMENTIONED COURTS IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING BY THE MAILING OF COPIES THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL, POSTAGE PREPAID, TO SUCH CREDIT PARTY, AT ITS ADDRESS SET FORTH IN SECTION 12.3, SUCH SERVICE TO BECOME EFFECTIVE THIRTY (30) DAYS AFTER SUCH MAILING. NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, ANY LENDER OR THE HOLDER OF ANY NOTE TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR TO COMMENCE LEGAL PROCEEDINGS OR OTHERWISE PROCEED AGAINST EACH CREDIT PARTY IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. (b) EACH CREDIT PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY OF THE AFORESAID ACTIONS OR PROCEEDINGS ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT BROUGHT IN THE COURTS REFERRED TO IN CLAUSE (A) ABOVE AND HEREBY FURTHER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES AND AGREES NOT TO PLEAD OR CLAIM IN ANY SUCH COURT THAT ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM. (c) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY COURT OR JURISDICTION, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THOSE REFERRED TO IN CLAUSE (A) ABOVE, IN RESPECT OF ANY MATTER ARISING OUT OF OR DIRECTLY RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT. 12.10 Release of Collateral. The Collateral and any other collateral security for the Obligation shall be released from any security interest or Lien created by the Loan Documents at such time as no Commitment by any Lender remains outstanding to any Borrower hereunder and after no Borrower shall have any Obligations or Loans of any kind then outstanding to Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders under this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents; and Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall then deliver to Borrowers all collateral held under the Loan Documents and related documents in the custody or possession of Administrative Agent and, if requested by any Borrower, shall execute and deliver to such Borrower for filing in each office in which any financing statement relative to such collateral, or any part thereof, shall have been filed, a termination statement under the Uniform Commercial Code or like statute in any other jurisdiction releasing Administrative Agent's interest therein, and such other documents and instruments as such Borrower may reasonably request, all without recourse upon, or warranty whatsoever by, Administrative Agent, and at the cost and expense of the applicable Borrower. 12.11 GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT AND EACH NOTE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS AND DECISIONS OF SAID STATE, INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT EXCLUDING ALL OTHER CHOICE OF LAW AND CONFLICTS OF LAWS RULES. 12.12 Severability of Provisions. Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof or affecting the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction. 12.13 Transfers of Notes. In the event that the holder of any Note (including any Lender) shall transfer such Note, it shall immediately advise Administrative Agent and Company of such transfer, and Administrative Agent and Company shall be entitled conclusively to assume that no transfer of any Note has been made by any holder (including any Lender) unless and until Administrative Agent and Company shall have received written notice to the contrary. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or as otherwise expressly agreed in writing by all of the other parties hereto, no Lender shall, by reason of the transfer of a Note or otherwise, be relieved of any of its obligations hereunder. Each transferee of any Note shall take such Note subject to the provisions of this Agreement and to any request made, waiver or consent given or other action taken hereunder, prior to the receipt by Administrative Agent and Company of written notice of such transfer, by each previous holder of such Note, and, except as expressly otherwise provided in such transfer, Administrative Agent and Company shall be entitled conclusively to assume that the transferee named in such notice shall hereafter be vested with all rights and powers under this Agreement with respect to the Pro Rata Share of the Loans of the Lender named as the payee of the Note which is the subject of such transfer. 12.14 Registry. Each Borrower hereby designates Administrative Agent to serve as Borrowers' agent, solely for purposes of this Section 12.14 to maintain a register (the "Register") on which it will record the Commitment from time to time of each of the Lenders, the Loans made by each of the Lenders and each repayment in respect of the principal amount of the Loans of each Lender. Failure to make any such recordation, or any error in such recordation shall not affect Borrowers' obligations in respect of such Loans. With respect to any Lender, the transfer of the Commitments of such Lender and the rights to the principal of, and interest on, any Loan made pursuant to such Commitment shall not be effective until such transfer is recorded on the Register maintained by Administrative Agent with respect to ownership of such Commitment and Loans and prior to such recordation all amounts owing to the transferor with respect to such Commitments and Loans shall remain owing to the transferor. The registration of assignment or transfer of all or part of any Commitment and Loans shall be recorded by Administrative Agent on the Register only upon the acceptance by Administrative Agent of a properly executed and delivered Assignment and Assumption Agreement pursuant to Section 12.8. Coincident with the delivery of such an Assignment and Assumption Agreement to Administrative Agent for acceptance and registration of assignment or transfer of all or part of a Loan, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the assigning or transferor Lender shall surrender the Note evidencing such Loan, and thereupon, if requested by the assigning or transferor Lender or new Lender, one or more new Notes in the same aggregate principal amount then owing to such assignor or transferor Lender shall be issued to the assigning or transferor Lender and/or the new Lender. 12.15 Euro Currency. (a) The following provisions of this Section 12.15 shall come into effect on and from the date on which the United Kingdom becomes a Participating Member State. Each obligation under this Agreement which has been denominated in Sterling shall be redenominated into Euros in accordance with the relevant EMU Legislation. However if and to the extent that the relevant EMU Legislation provides that an amount which is denominated in Sterling can be paid by the debtor either in Euros or in that national currency unit, each party to this Agreement shall be entitled to pay or repay any amount denominated or owing in Sterling hereunder either in Euros or in Sterling. Without prejudice and in addition to any method of conversion or rounding prescribed by any relevant EMU Legislation, (i) each reference in this Agreement to a minimum amount (or an integral multiple thereof) in Sterling shall be replaced by a reference to such reasonably comparable and convenient amount (or an integral multiple thereof) in Euros as Administrative Agent may from time to time specify and (ii) except as expressly provided in this Section 12.15, this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be necessary or appropriate to reflect the introduction of or changeover to Euros in the United Kingdom. (b) Company, European Holdco and Subsidiary Borrowers agree, at the request to any Lender or any Facing Agent, to compensate such Lender or the respective Facing Agent for any loss, cost, expense or reduction in return that such Lender or such Facing Agent shall reasonably determine shall be incurred or sustained by such Lender or such Facing Agent as a result of the implementation of Section 12.15(a) that would not have been incurred or sustained by such Lender or such Facing Agent but for the transactions provided for herein. A certificate of any such Lender or the respective Facing Agent setting forth such Lender's or such Facing Agent's determination of the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such Facing Agent shall be delivered to Administrative Agent for delivery to the applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error so long as such determination is made by such Lender or such Facing Agent on a reasonable basis. The applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. 12.16 Headings. The Table of Contents and Article and Section headings used in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement. 12.17 Termination of Agreement. This Agreement shall terminate when the Commitment of each Lender has terminated and all outstanding Obligations and Loans have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or been terminated; provided, however, that the rights and remedies of Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent and each Lender with respect to any representation and warranty made by any Credit Party pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and the indemnification and expense reimbursement provisions contained in this Agreement and any other Loan Document, shall be continuing and shall survive any termination of this Agreement or any other Loan Document. 12.18 Confidentiality. Each of the Lenders severally agrees to keep confidential all non-public information pertaining to Company and its Subsidiaries which is provided to it by any such parties in accordance with such Lender's customary procedures for handling confidential information of this nature and in a prudent fashion, and shall not disclose such information to any Person except: (a) to the extent such information is public when received by such Lender or becomes public thereafter due to the act or omission of any party other than a Lender, (b) to an Affiliate of such Lender, counsel or auditors of such Lender, accountants and other consultants, in connection with the Loan Documents, retained by Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender, (c) in connection with any litigation or the enforcement of the rights of any Lender, Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (d) to the extent required by any applicable statute, rule or regulation or court order (including, without limitation, by way of subpoena) or pursuant to the request of any Governmental Authority having or asserting jurisdiction over any Lender, Canadian Administrative Agent or Administrative Agent; provided, however, that in such event, if the Lender(s) are able to do so, the Lender shall provide Company with prompt notice of such requested disclosure so that Borrowers may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, and, in any event, the Lenders will endeavor in good faith to provide only that portion of such information which, in the reasonable judgment of the Lender(s), is relevant and legally required to be provided, or to any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about a Lender's investment portfolio in connection with rating issued with respect to such Lender. (e) to the extent disclosure to other entities is appropriate in connection with any proposed or actual assignment, grant of a participation or swap agreement entered into by any of the Lenders with respect to interests in this Agreement and/or any of the other Loan Documents to such other entities (who will in turn be required to maintain confidentiality as if they were Lenders parties to this Agreement). In no event shall Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender be obligated or required to return any such information or other materials furnished by Borrowers. 12.19 Concerning the Collateral and the Loan Documents. (a) Authority. Each Lender authorizes and directs DB to act as collateral agent and to enter into the Loan Documents relating to the Collateral for the benefit of the Lenders and the other secured parties. Each Lender agrees that any action taken by Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, where required by the express terms, hereof, a different proportion of the Lenders) in accordance with the provisions hereof or of the other Loan Documents, and the exercise by Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, where so required, such different proportion) of the powers set forth herein or therein, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto, shall be authorized and binding upon all of the Lenders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Administrative Agent and Canadian Administrative Agent shall have the sole and exclusive right and authority to (i) act as the disbursing and collecting agent for the Lenders with respect to all payments and collections arising in connection herewith and with the Loan Documents relating to the Collateral; (ii) execute and deliver each Loan Document relating to the Collateral and accept delivery of each such agreement delivered by Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) act as collateral trustee for the Lenders for purposes stated therein to the extent such action is provided for under the Loan Documents; (iv) manage, supervise and otherwise deal with the Collateral; (v) take such action as is necessary or desirable to maintain the perfection and priority of the security interests and liens created or purported to be created by the Loan Documents, and (vi) except as may be otherwise specifically restricted by the terms hereof or of any other Loan Document, exercise all remedies given to Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or the Lenders with respect to the Collateral under the Loan Documents relating thereto, applicable law or otherwise. (b) Release of Collateral. (i) Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby direct Administrative Agent to release, in accordance with the terms hereof, any Lien held by Administrative Agent under the Security Documents: (A) against all of the Collateral, upon payment in full of the Loans and Obligations and termination hereof; (B) against any part of the Collateral sold or disposed of by Company or any of its Subsidiaries to the extent such sale or disposition is permitted hereby (or permitted pursuant to a waiver or consent of a transaction otherwise prohibited hereby); (C) so long as no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in the sole discretion of Administrative Agent upon the request of any Borrower, against any part of the Collateral with a fair market value of less than $10,000,000 in the aggregate during the term of this Agreement as such fair market value may be certified to Administrative Agent by such Borrower in an officer's certificate acceptable in form and substance to Administrative Agent; and (D) against a part of the Collateral which release does not require the consent of all of the Lenders as set forth in Section 12.1(a)(ii), if such release is consented to by the Required Lenders; provided, however, that (y) Administrative Agent shall not be required to execute any such document on terms which, in its opinion, would expose it to liability or create any obligation or entail any consequence other than the release of such Liens without recourse or warranty, and (z) such release shall not in any manner discharge, affect or impair the Obligations or any Liens upon (or obligations of Company or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of) all interests retained by Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries, including (without limitation) the proceeds of any sale, all of which shall continue to constitute part of the Collateral. (ii) Each of the Lenders hereby directs Administrative Agent to execute and deliver or file such termination and partial release statements and comparable release documents under foreign law and such other things as are necessary to release Liens to be released pursuant to this Section 12.19 promptly upon the effectiveness of any such release or enter into intercreditor agreements contemplated or permitted herein. (c) No Obligation. Administrative Agent shall have no obligation whatsoever to any Lender or to any other Person to assure that the Collateral exists or is owned by Company or any of its Subsidiaries or is cared for, protected or insured or has been encumbered or that the Liens granted to Administrative Agent herein or pursuant to the Loan Documents have been properly or sufficiently or lawfully created, perfected, protected or enforced or are entitled to any particular priority, or to exercise at all or in any particular manner or under any duty of care, disclosure or fidelity, or to continue exercising, any of the rights, authorities and powers granted or available to Administrative Agent in any of the Loan Documents, it being understood and agreed that in respect of the Collateral, or any act, omission or event related thereto, Administrative Agent may act in any manner it may deem appropriate, in its sole discretion, given Administrative Agent's own interests in the Collateral as one of the Lenders and that Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or liability whatsoever to any Lender, provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, Administrative Agent shall be responsible for its grossly negligent actions or actions constituting intentional misconduct. 12.20 Effectiveness. This Agreement shall become effective on the date (the "Effective Date") on which Borrowers and each of the Lenders shall have signed a counterpart of this Agreement (whether the same or different counterparts) and shall have delivered the same to Administrative Agent at the Notice Office (or to Administrative Agent's counsel as directed by such counsel) or, in the case of the Lenders, shall have given to Administrative Agent or telephonic (confirmed in writing), written, telex or facsimile notice (actually received) at such office or the office of Administrative Agent's counsel that the same has been signed and mailed to it. Administrative Agent will give Borrowers and each Lender prompt written notice of the occurrence of the Effective Date. 12.21 Intentionally Omitted. 12.22 Restrictions on Guarantees and Pledges. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any Loan Document (except for Section 7.12(a)(iv), Section 7.12(a)(v), and Section 7.14 of this Agreement), (A) neither Company nor any Domestic Subsidiary of Company (individually or in combination) shall pledge more than 65% of the stock of any Foreign Subsidiary (or more than 65% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such Foreign Subsidiary entitled to vote); (ii) no Foreign Subsidiary of Company shall pledge the stock of any Subsidiary; and (iii) no Foreign Subsidiary shall provide any guarantees, in each case, to secure any obligations of any Borrower that is a United States person within the meaning of Code Section 7701(a)(30). For purposes of this Section 12.22, Subsidiary shall include members of the BAP Group and any Permitted Aerospace JV. ARTICLE XIII COLLECTION ACTION MECHANISM 13.1 Implementation of CAM. (a) (i) On the CAM Exchange Date, to the extent not otherwise prohibited by a Requirement of Law or otherwise, each Multicurrency Revolving Lender shall immediately be deemed to have acquired (and shall promptly make payment therefor to Swing Line Lender in accordance with Section 2.1(c)(iii)) participations in the Swing Line Loans in an amount equal to such Multicurrency Revolving Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of each Swing Line Loan outstanding on such date and (ii) except as provided in clause (iii) below, all Loans outstanding in any currency other than Dollars ("Loans to be Converted") shall be converted into Dollars (calculated on the basis of the relevant Exchange Rates as of the Business Day immediately preceding the CAM Exchange Date) ("Converted Loans"), (iii) on each date on or after the CAM Exchange Date on which any B/As or B/A Equivalent Loans shall mature such B/As or B/A Equivalent Loans ("Acceptances to be Converted") shall be converted into Canadian Revolving Loans denominated in Dollars (calculated on the basis of the Exchange Rate as of the Business Day immediately preceding such maturity date) ("Converted Acceptances") and (iv) on the CAM Exchange Date (with respect to Loans described in the foregoing clause (ii)), and on the respective maturity date (with respect to B/As and B/A Equivalent Loans described in the foregoing clause (iii)) each Lender severally, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that it shall purchase or sell in U.S. Dollars a participating interest in the Loans and Converted Acceptances in an amount equal to its CAM Percentage of (x) the outstanding principal amount of the Loans and (y) the face amount of matured B/As and B/A Equivalent Loans, as applicable, such that in lieu of the interest of each Lender in each Facility in which it shall participate prior to the CAM Exchange Date, such Lender shall hold an interest in every one of the Facilities whether or not such Lender shall have previously participated therein, equal to such Lender's CAM Percentage thereof on the CAM Exchange Date. All Converted Loans and Converted Acceptances (which shall have been converted into Canadian Revolving Loans denominated in U.S. Dollars) shall bear interest at the rate which would otherwise be applicable to Base Rate Loans. Each Lender and each Borrower hereby consents and agrees to the CAM Exchange, and each Lender agrees that the CAM Exchange shall be binding upon its successors and assigns and any person that acquires a participation in its interests in any Facility. Each Borrower agrees from time to time to execute and deliver to Administrative Agent all instruments and documents as Administrative Agent shall reasonably request to evidence and confirm the respective interests of the Lenders after giving effect to the CAM Exchange. (b) If, for any reason, the Loans to be Converted or Acceptances to be Converted, as the case may be, may not be converted into Dollars in the manner contemplated by paragraph (a) of this Section 13.1, (i) Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the Loans to be Converted or Acceptances to be Converted, as the case may be (calculated on the basis of the Exchange Rate as of the Business Day immediately preceding the date on which such conversion would otherwise occur pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 13.1) and such determination shall be utilized to determine the CAM Percentage of each Lender and the participations to be exchanged. (c) As a result of the CAM Exchange, upon and after the CAM Exchange Date, each payment received by Administrative Agent, Canadian Administrative Agent or Collateral Agent pursuant to any Loan Document in respect of the Designated Obligations, and each distribution made by Collateral Agent pursuant to any Security Document in respect of the Designated Obligations, shall be distributed to the Lenders pro rata in accordance with their respective CAM Percentages. Any direct payment received by a Lender upon or after the CAM Exchange Date, including by way of setoff, in respect of a Designated Obligation shall be paid over to Administrative Agent for distribution to the Lenders in accordance herewith. 13.2 Letters of Credit. (a) In the event that on the CAM Exchange Date any Letter of Credit shall be outstanding and undrawn in whole or in part, or any amount drawn under a Letter of Credit shall not have been reimbursed either by Borrowers or with the proceeds of a Multicurrency Revolving Loan, each Multicurrency Revolving Lender shall promptly pay over to Administrative Agent, in immediately available funds in the same currency as such Letter of Credit, in the case of any undrawn amount, and in Dollars, in the case of any unreimbursed amount, an amount equal to such Multicurrency Revolving Lender's Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of such undrawn face amount or (to the extent it has not already done so) such unreimbursed drawing, as the case may be, together with interest thereon from the CAM Exchange Date to the date on which such amount shall be paid to Administrative Agent at the rate that would be applicable at the time to a Base Rate Multicurrency Revolving Loan, in a principal amount equal to such amount. Administrative Agent shall establish a separate interest bearing account or accounts for each Lender (each, an "LC Reserve Account") for the amounts received with respect to each such Letter of Credit pursuant to the preceding sentence. Administrative Agent shall deposit in each Lender's LC Reserve Account such Lender's CAM Percentage of the amounts received from the Multicurrency Revolving Lenders as provided above. Administrative Agent shall have sole dominion and control over each LC Reserve Account, and the amounts deposited in each LC Reserve Account shall be held in such LC Reserve Account until withdrawn as provided in paragraph (b), (c), (d) or (e) below. Administrative Agent shall maintain records enabling it to determine the amounts paid over to it and deposited in the LC Reserve Accounts in respect of each Letter of Credit and the amounts on deposit in respect of each Letter of Credit attributable to each Lender's CAM Percentage. The amounts held in each Lender's LC Reserve Account shall be held as a reserve against the outstanding LC Obligations, shall be the property of such Lender, shall not constitute Loans to or give rise to any claim of or against any Credit Party and shall not give rise to any obligation on the part of any Borrower to pay interest to such Lender, it being agreed that the reimbursement obligations in respect of Letters of Credit shall arise only at such times as drawings are made thereunder, as provided in Section 2.10. (b) In the event that after the CAM Exchange Date any drawing shall be made in respect of a Letter of Credit, Administrative Agent shall, at the request of the respective Facing Agent, withdraw from the LC Reserve Account of each Lender any amounts, up to the amount of such Lender's CAM Percentage of such drawing, deposited in respect of such Letter of Credit and remaining on deposit and deliver such amounts to such Facing Agent in satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Multicurrency Revolving Lenders under subsection (f) of Section 2.10. In the event any Multicurrency Revolving Lender shall default on its obligation to pay over any amount to Administrative Agent in respect of any Letter of Credit as provided in this Section 13.2, the respective Facing Agent shall, in the event of a drawing thereunder, have a claim against such Multicurrency Revolving Lender to the same extent as if such Lender had defaulted on its obligations under subsection (f) of Section 2.10, but shall have no claim against any other Lender in respect of such defaulted amount, notwithstanding the exchange of interests in Borrowers' reimbursement obligations pursuant Section 13.1. Each other Lender shall have a claim against such defaulting Multicurrency Revolving Lender for any damages sustained by it as a result of such default, including, in the event such Letter of Credit shall expire undrawn, its CAM Percentage of the defaulted amount. (c) In the event that after the CAM Exchange Date any Letter of Credit shall expire undrawn, Administrative Agent shall withdraw from the LC Reserve Account of each Lender the amount remaining on deposit therein in respect of such Letter of Credit and distribute such amount to such Lender. (d) With the prior written approval of Administrative Agent and the respective Facing Agent (not to be unreasonably withheld), any Lender may withdraw the amount held in its LC Reserve Account in respect of the undrawn amount of any Letter of Credit. Any Lender making such a withdrawal shall be unconditionally obligated, in the event there shall subsequently be a drawing under such Letter of Credit, to pay over to Administrative Agent, for the account of such Facing Agent, on demand, its CAM Percentage of such drawing. (e) Pending the withdrawal by any Lender of any amounts from its LC Reserve Account as contemplated by the above paragraphs, Administrative Agent will, at the direction of such Lender and subject to such rules as Administrative Agent may prescribe for the avoidance of inconvenience, invest such amounts in Cash and Cash Equivalents. Each Lender which has not withdrawn its CAM Percentage of amounts in its LC Reserve Account as provided in paragraph (d) above shall have the right, at intervals reasonably specified by Administrative Agent, to withdraw the earnings on investments so made by Administrative Agent with amounts in its LC Reserve Account and to retain such earnings for its own account. ARTICLE XIV COMPANY GUARANTY 14.1 The Company Guaranty. In order to induce the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to extend credit hereunder and in recognition of the direct and indirect benefits to be received by Company from the proceeds of the Loans and the issuance of the Letters of Credit, Company hereby agrees with the Lenders as follows: Company hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees as primary obligor and not merely as surety the full and prompt payment when due, whether upon maturity, acceleration or otherwise, of any and all of the Guaranteed Obligations of each Borrower (other than Company) to the Guaranteed Creditors. If any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations of any Borrower (other than Company) to the Guaranteed Creditors becomes due and payable hereunder, Company unconditionally promises to pay such Guaranteed Obligations to the Guaranteed Creditors, or order, on demand, together with any and all reasonable expenses which may be incurred by Administrative Agent or the Lenders in collecting any of the Guaranteed Obligations. If claim is ever made upon any Guaranteed Creditor for repayment or recovery of any amount or amounts received in payment or on account of any of the Guaranteed Obligations and any of the aforesaid payees repays all or part of said amount by reason of (i) any judgment, decree or order of any court or administrative body having jurisdiction over such payee or any of its property or (ii) any settlement or compromise of any such claim effected by such payee with any such claimant (including any Borrower), then and in such event Company agrees that any such judgment, decree, order, settlement or compromise shall be binding upon Company, notwithstanding any revocation of this guaranty or other instrument evidencing any liability of any Borrower, and Company shall be and remain liable to the aforesaid payees hereunder for the amount so repaid or recovered to the same extent as if such amount had never originally been received by any such payee. 14.2 Insolvency. Additionally, Company unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the payment of any and all of the Guaranteed Obligations of each Borrower to the Guaranteed Creditors whether or not due or payable by such Borrower upon the occurrence of any of the events specified in Sections 10.1(e) or (f) with respect to such Borrower, and unconditionally promises to pay such Guaranteed Obligations to the Guaranteed Creditors, or order, on demand, in lawful money of the United States or the applicable Alternative Currency, as the case may be. 14.3 Nature of Liability. The liability of Company hereunder is exclusive and independent of any security for or other guaranty of the Guaranteed Obligations of any Borrower whether executed by Company, any other guarantor or by any other party, and the liability of Company hereunder is not affected or impaired by (a) any direction as to application of payment by any Borrower or by any other party; or (b) any other continuing or other guaranty, undertaking or maximum liability of a guarantor or of any other party as to the Guaranteed Obligations of any Borrower; or (c) any payment on or reduction in any such other guaranty or undertaking; or (d) any dissolution, termination or increase, decrease or change in personnel by any Borrower; or (e) any payment made to any Guaranteed Creditor on the Guaranteed Obligations which any such Guaranteed Creditor repays to any Borrower pursuant to court order in any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, moratorium or other debtor relief proceeding in any jurisdiction. 14.4 Independent Obligation. The obligations of Company hereunder are independent of the obligations of any other guarantor, any other party or any Borrower, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against Company whether or not action is brought against any other guarantor, any other party or any Borrower and whether or not any other guarantor, any other party or any Borrower be joined in any such action or actions. Company waives, to the full extent permitted by law, the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting its liability hereunder or the enforcement thereof. Any payment by any Borrower or other circumstance which operates to toll any statute of limitations as to any Borrower shall operate to toll the statute of limitations as to Company or any guarantor. 14.5 Authorization. Any Guaranteed Creditor may (to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) at any time and from time to time in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Credit Agreement without the consent of, or notice to, Company, without incurring responsibility to Company and without impairing or releasing the obligations of Company under this Article XIV, upon or without any terms or conditions and in whole or in part: (a) change the manner, place or terms of payment of, and/or change or extend the time of payment of, renew, increase, accelerate or alter, any of the Guaranteed Obligations (including any increase or decrease in the rate of interest thereon), any security therefor, or any liability incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof (other than any agreement between any Guaranteed Creditor and Company specifically modifying or amending the terms of this Article XIV), and the guaranty herein made shall apply to the Guaranteed Obligations as so changed, extended, renewed or altered; (b) take and hold security for the payment of the Guaranteed Obligations and sell, exchange, release, surrender, realize upon or otherwise deal with in any manner and in any order any property by whomsoever at any time pledged or mortgaged to secure, or howsoever securing, the Guaranteed Obligations or any liabilities (including any of those hereunder) incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof or hereof, and/or any offset thereagainst; (c) exercise or refrain from exercising any rights against any Borrower or others or otherwise act or refrain from acting; (d) release or substitute any one or more endorsers, guarantors, any Borrower or other obligors; (e) settle or compromise any of the Guaranteed Obligations, any security therefor or any liability (including any of those hereunder) incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof or hereof, and may subordinate the payment of all or any part thereof to the payment of any liability (whether due or not) of any Borrower to its creditors other than the Guaranteed Creditors; (f) apply any sums by whomsoever paid or howsoever realized to any liability or liabilities of any Borrower to the Guaranteed Creditors, regardless of what liability or liabilities of Company or any Borrower remain unpaid; (g) consent to or waive any breach of, or any act, omission or default under, this Agreement or any of the instruments or agreements referred to herein; and/or (h) take any other action which would, under otherwise applicable principles of common law, give rise to a legal or equitable discharge of Company from its liabilities under this Article XIV. 14.6 Reliance. It is not necessary for any Guaranteed Creditor to inquire into the capacity or powers of any Borrower or the officers, directors, partners or agents acting or purporting to act on their behalf, and any Guaranteed Obligations made or created in reliance upon the professed exercise of such powers shall be guaranteed hereunder. 14.7 Subordination. Any of the indebtedness of any Borrower (other than Company) now or hereafter owing to Company is hereby subordinated to the Guaranteed Obligations of any such Borrower owing to the Guaranteed Creditors; and if Administrative Agent so requests at a time when an Event of Default shall have occurred and is continuing, all such indebtedness relating to the Guaranteed Obligations of Borrowers to Company shall be collected, enforced and received by Company for the benefit of the Guaranteed Creditors and be paid over to Administrative Agent on behalf of the Guaranteed Creditors on account of the Guaranteed Obligations of Borrowers to the Guaranteed Creditors, but without affecting or impairing in any manner the liability of Company under the other provisions of this Article XIV. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Company hereby agrees with the Guaranteed Creditors that it will not exercise any right of subrogation which it may at any time otherwise have as a result of this guaranty (whether contractual, under Section 509 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise) until all Guaranteed Obligations have been irrevocably paid in full in cash and all Commitments terminated. 14.8 Waiver. (a) Company waives any right (to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) to require any Guaranteed Creditor to (i) proceed against any Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party, (ii) proceed against or exhaust any security held from any Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party or (iii) pursue any other remedy in any Guaranteed Creditor's power whatsoever. Company waives (to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) any defense based on or arising out of any defense of any Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party, other than payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations, based on or arising out of the disability of any Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party, or the validity, legality or unenforceability of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof from any cause, or the cessation from any cause of the liability of any Borrower other than payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations. The Guaranteed Creditors may, at their election, foreclose on any security held by Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent or any other Guaranteed Creditor by one or more judicial or nonjudicial sales (to the extent such sale is permitted by applicable law), or exercise any other right or remedy the Guaranteed Creditors may have against any Borrower or any other party, or any security, without affecting or impairing in any way the liability of Company hereunder except to the extent the Guaranteed Obligations have been paid. Company waives any defense arising out of any such election by the Guaranteed Creditors, even though such election operates to impair or extinguish any right of reimbursement or subrogation or other right or remedy of Company against Borrower or any other party or any security. (b) Company waives all presentments, demands for performance, protests and notices, including without limitation notices of nonperformance, notices of protest, notices of dishonor, notices of acceptance of this guaranty, and notices of the existence, creation or incurring of new or additional Guaranteed Obligations. Company assumes all responsibility for being and keeping itself informed of each Borrower's financial condition and assets, and of all other circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of the Guaranteed Obligations and the nature, scope and extent of the risks which Company assumes and incurs hereunder, and agrees that Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have no duty to advise Company of information known to them regarding such circumstances or risks. 14.9 Nature of Liability. It is the desire and intent of Company and the Lenders that this Article XIV shall be enforced against Company to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. If, however, and to the extent that, the obligations of Company under this Article XIV shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers), then the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations of Company shall be deemed to be reduced and Company shall pay the maximum amount of the Guaranteed Obligations which would be permissible under applicable law. [signature pages follow]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written. BALL CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer BALL PACKAGING PRODUCTS CANADA CORP. By: /s/ Scott C. Morrison ------------------------------ Name: Scott C. Morrison Title: Vice President and Treasurer
BALL EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, SARL By: /s/ Charles E. Baker ------------------------------- Name: Charles E. Baker Title: Manager BALL (LUXEMBOURG) FINANCE, SARL By: /s/ Charles E. Baker ------------------------------- Name: Charles E. Baker Title: Manager
SCHMALBACH-LUBECA GMBH By: /s/ Dr. Ingo Scholz -------------------------------- Name: Dr. Ingo Scholz ------------------------------ Title: ----------------------------- Acting as representative without power of attorney without assuming any liability in the event Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH should not approve the declarations made by it as representative without power of attorney on behalf of Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH.
CONTINENTAL CAN COMPANY, LTD. By: /s/ Jan Driessens -------------------------------- Name: Jan Driessens ------------------------------ Title: Director ----------------------------- By: /s/ T P Voce -------------------------------- Name: Terry P. Voce ------------------------------ Title: Director -----------------------------
DEUTSCHE BANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, in its individual capacity and as Administrative Agent By:/s/ Mary Kay Coyle --------------------------------- Name: Mary Kay Coyle ------------------------------- Title: Managing Director ------------------------------ By: /s/ Alexander Bici --------------------------------- Name: Alexander Bici ------------------------------- Title: Vice President ------------------------------
DEUTSCHE BANK AG, CANADA BRANCH By: /s/ Karyn Curran -------------------------------- Name: Karyn Curran ------------------------------- Title: Credit Product Manager ------------------------------ By: /s/ Marla Gorzen --------------------------------- Name: Marla Gorzen ------------------------------ Title: Vice President ------------------------------
THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, in its individual capacity and as Canadian Administrative Agent By: /s/ Phil Armstrong -------------------------------- Name: Phil Armstrong ------------------------------ Title: Vice President -----------------------------
Lender: LEHMAN COMMERCIAL PAPER INC. By: /s/ G. Andrew Keith --------------------------------- Name: G. Andrew Keith ------------------------------- Title: Authorized Signatory ------------------------------
Lender: BANK ONE, N.A. By: /s/ Kandis A. Jaffrey --------------------------------- Name: Kandis A. Jaffrey Title: Director
Lender: Bank of America, N.A. By: /s/ Brian D. Corum -------------------------------- Name: Brian D. Corum Title: Managing Director
Lender: Bank of America, National Association Canada Branch By: /s/ Medina Sales de Andrade ---------------------------------- Name: Medina Sales de Andrade -------------------------------- Title: Assistant Vice-President -------------------------------
Lender: Bank of America N.A. (Loan Trading) By: /s/ Alison Jenkins --------------------------------- Name: Alison Jenkins Title: Principal, Syndicated Finance
Lender: KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ Michael J. Vegh --------------------------------- Name: Michael J. Vegh Title: Portfolio Manager
Lender: WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ Randall Schmidt --------------------------------- Name: Randall Schmidt ------------------------------- Title: Vice President ------------------------------
Lender: PB Capital Corporation, as a Lender By: /s/ Andrew L. Shipman -------------------------------- Name: Andrew L. Shipman Title: Assistant Vice President By: /s/ Tyler J. McCarthy -------------------------------- Name: Tyler J. McCarthy Title: Assistant Vice President
Lender: THE BANK OF NEW YORK By: /s/ Robert Besser --------------------------------- Name: Robert Besser Title: Vice President
Lender: NATEXIS BANQUES POPULAIRES By: /s/ Frank H. Madden, Jr. -------------------------------- Name: Frank H. Madden, Jr. ------------------------------- Title: Vice President and Group Manager ------------------------------ By: /s/ Joseph A. Miller Name: Joseph A. Miller Title: Associate
Lender: Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation By: /s/ Suresh Tata ---------------------------------------- Name: Suresh Tata -------------------------------------- Title: Senior Vice President -------------------------------------
Lender: First Commercial Bank (New York Agency) By: /s/ Bruce M.J. Ju ------------------------------------------------- Name: Bruce M.J. Ju ----------------------------------------------- Title: VP & GM ----------------------------------------------
LENDER: BNP Paribas ------------------------------- By: /s/ Sean T. Conlon ------------------------------------ Name: Sean T. Conlon ---------------------------------- Title: Managing Director --------------------------------- By: /s/ Tjalling Terpstra ------------------------------------ Name: Tjalling Terpstra --------------------------------- Title: Director --------------------------------
Lender: Bank Leumi USA By: /s/ Joung Hee Hong ---------------------------------- Name: Joung Hee Hong -------------------------------- Title: Vice President
Lender: The Northern Trust Company ------------------------------- By: /s/ Edmund H. Lester ---------------------------------------- Name: Edmund H. Lester -------------------------------------- Title: Vice President -------------------------------------
CoBank, ACB By: /s/ S. Richard Dill ------------------------- Name: S. Richard Dill Title: Vice President Phone: 303-740-4197 Fax: 303-224-2747 (Zeta) e-mail rdill@cobank.com
Lender: Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena S p A Frankfurt am Main Branch By: /s/ Don Gennaro Miccoli ------------------------------------------ Name: Don Gennaro Miccoli ---------------------------------------- Title: Manager of the Branch --------------------------------------- By: /s/ Berthold Biehler ------------------------------------------ Name: Berthold Biehler ---------------------------------------- Title: Head of Credit Department ---------------------------------------
Lender: IKB Capital Corporation --------------------------------- By: /s/ David Snyder ------------------------------------ Name: David Snyder ------------------------------------ Title: President ------------------------------------
Lender: SunTrust Bank ------------------- By: /s/ Molly J. Drennan ------------------------ Name: Molly J. Drennan Title: Director
Lender: ERSTE BANK By: /s/ Brandon A. Meyerson ---------------------------------------------- Name: Brandon A. Meyerson -------------------------------------------- Title: Vice President, Erste Bank New York Branch ------------------------------------------- By: /s/ Robert Suehnholz --------------------------------------------- Name: Robert Suehnholz ------------------------------------------- Title: First Vice President ------------------------------------------
THE GOVERNOR & COMPANY OF THE BANK OF IRELAND By: /s/ John S. Holt ------------------------------------------ Name: John S. Holt Title: Authorized Signatory By: /s/ David Walsh ----------------------------------------- Name: David Walsh Title: Authorized Signatory
Lender: Dresdner Bank AG, New York And Grand Cayman Branches By: /s/ D Carlson ----------------------------------- Name: Deborah Carlson --------------------------------- Title: Director -------------------------------- By: /s/ Stephen Kovach ----------------------------------- Name: Stephen Kovach --------------------------------- Title: Vice President --------------------------------
Lender: The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. Chicago Branch By: /s/ Shinichiro Munechika -------------------------------- Name: Shinichiro Munechika ------------------------------ Title: Deputy General Manager -----------------------------
Lender: U.S. Bank National Association By: /s/ Thomas McCarthy ---------------------------------------- Name: Thomas McCarthy Title: Vice President
Lender: Scotiabank Europe plc ------------------------------ By: /s/ J.A. Freker ----------------------------------- Name: J.A. Freker --------------------------------- Title: Director --------------------------------
Lender: RABOBANK NEDERLAND CANADIAN BRANCH By: /s/ Peter Greenberg ----------------------------------- Name: Peter Greenberg --------------------------------- Title: Corporate Banking Head -------------------------------- By: /s/ Gabriella Evinich ----------------------------------- Name: Gabriella Evinich --------------------------------- Title: Vice President --------------------------------
Lender: COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK B.A., "RABOBANK INTERNATIONAL", NEW YORK BRANCH By: /s/ Robert M. Mandula --------------------------------------------------------- Name: Robert M. Mandula ------------------------------------------------------- Title: Executive Director ------------------------------------------------------ By: /s/ Edward J. Peyser --------------------------------------------------------- Name: Edward J. Peyser ------------------------------------------------------- Title: Managing Director ------------------------------------------------------
Lender: Credit Lyonnais New York Branch By: /s/ Rod Hurst ------------------------------------ Name: Rod Hurst Title: Vice President


