FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20030724125733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
Item 5. Other Information
        On December 19, 2002, Ball Corporation (Ball), through an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired 100 percent of the capital stock of Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH. The operations acquired are now known as Ball Packaging Europe GmbH. Ball reported the acquisition on a Form 8-K dated December 19, 2002 and filed December 31, 2002, and in an amendment filed January 28, 2003, provided the financial information and pro forma financial information required by Regulation S-X.
        On July 24, 2003, Ball announced its intention to offer new senior notes. We intend to use the net proceeds from the offering of the notes, together with other available funds, to redeem Ball's existing 8 1/4% senior subordinated notes due 2008 pursuant to the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing those notes.   The redemption of the 2008 subordinated notes is expected to occur approximately 30 days after the pricing of the new notes offering.
        In connection with the offering of the new notes, we are filing pro forma financial information for the year ended December 31, 2002.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 24, 2003

Exhibit 99.1
        On December 19, 2002, Ball, through an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired 100 percent of the capital stock of Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH (Schmalbach), a European beverage can manufacturer, for an initial cash purchase price of 922.3 million (approximately $948 million), plus acquisition costs of $11.6 million, refinancing costs of $28.1 million and the assumption of approximately $20 million of debt and approximately $11 million of unencumbered cash. The company also assumed approximately $300 million of ongoing pension liabilities. The final acquisition price was subsequently reduced by working capital and other purchase price adjustments of 24 million ($27.8 million) and may be further reduced based upon the final valuation of pension liabilities. The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, its results have been included in Ball's consolidated financial statements effective from December 19, 2002. Under this method, the purchase price has been allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based on preliminary estimates of fair value. The valuation of certain assets and liabilities is still in process by management and third-party experts and therefore, the actual fair values may vary from the preliminary estimates.
        In connection with the acquisition, we refinanced the majority of the company's indebtedness and, as a result, recorded an after-tax charge from the early extinguishment of debt of $3.2 million (6 cents per diluted share). The refinancing, including related costs, was completed with the placement of $300 million in 6.875% senior notes due 2012 and $1.1 billion from borrowings under new long-term multi-currency senior credit facilities. Approximately $580 million of existing long-term debt remained in place.
        The new senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates and are comprised of the following: (1) $250 million Term Loan A, denominated in euros and/or British pounds, due in installments through December 2007; (2) $300 million Term Loan B, denominated in euros, due in installments through December 2009; (3) $350 million Term Loan B, denominated in U.S. dollars, due in installments through December 2009; (4) a multi-currency long-term revolving credit facility which provides us with up to the equivalent of $415 million and (5) a Canadian long-term revolving credit facility which provides us with up to the equivalent of $35 million. Both revolving credit facilities expire in 2007.
        The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2002, is based on the consolidated financial statements of Ball and the combined financial statements of Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans and adjusted to give effect to the acquisition and related financings as if they had occurred on January 1, 2002. Adjustments for the acquisition and related financings are based upon historical financial information of Ball and Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans and certain assumptions that management of Ball believes are reasonable.
        The pro forma financial data do not necessarily reflect the results of operations of Ball that actually would have resulted had the transactions occurred at the date indicated, or project the results of operations or financial position of Ball for any future date or period.
        Prior to July 1, 2002, Schmalbach-Lubeca AG, the predecessor to Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH, consisted of three operating segmentsPET containers, White Cap closures and beverage cans. On July 1, 2002, Schmalbach sold both the PET and White Cap businesses. The Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans historical financial statements included herein represent the beverage can business and an allocated portion of the corporate headquarters function and exclude the businesses that were sold on July 1, 2002. The Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans combined statement of earnings includes all items of revenue and income generated by the beverage can operations and all items of expense directly incurred by or charged to the beverage can business, as well as an allocation of certain corporate expenses. Also included are certain historical corporate activities of Schmalbach, relating to the beverage can business, which are not reflective of the recurring operations of the business under Ball ownership and management subsequent to the acquisition.
        The Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans combined financial statement of earnings was prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards, or IAS, which differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or US GAAP, and were adjusted to US GAAP. The combined statement of earnings was prepared in euros and translated to U.S. dollars at the average of the daily closing rates for the period presented. Certain reclassifications were made to conform the Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans combined statement of earnings to Ball's presentation.
        The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial data should be read in conjunction with:
          The following table reconciles from IAS to US GAAP the Schmalbach-Lubeca Beverage Cans combined statement of earnings for the period from January 1, 2002, to December 18, 2002. The amounts have been translated at an average daily closing rate for the period of $0.94386 to 1.00.


