FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20031028104436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
The information regarding Ball Corporation's (the "Company") third quarter earnings for 2003 required to be reported under Item 12, Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, of Form 8-K is furnished herein pursuant to Item 9, Regulation FD Disclosure. On October 28, 2003, the Company reported third quarter earnings of $68.8 million, or $1.21 per diluted share, on sales of $1.36 billion, compared to $50 million, or 87 cents per diluted share, on sales of $1.04 billion in the third quarter of 2002. The earnings information regarding the third quarter and information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures is set forth in the attached press release. The attached press release is deemed to be furnished and not filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated October 28, 2003
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  October 28, 2003

[GRAPHIC OMITTED]    10 Longs Peak Drive, Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510                       Investor Contact:          Ann Scott        303.460.3537, ascott@ball.comMedia Contact:             Scott McCarty    303.460.2103, smccarty@ball.com                                              BROOMFIELD, Colo., Oct. 28, 2003--Ball Corporation [NYSE:BLL] today reported third quarter earnings attributable to commonshareholders of $68.8 million, or $1.21 per diluted share, on sales of $1.36 billion, compared to $50 million, or 87 cents perdiluted share, on sales of $1.04 billion in the same period a year ago.         The 2003 results include a previously announced after-tax charge of $9.9 million, or 17 cents per diluted share, for earlydebt extinguishment, offset somewhat by an after-tax gain of $2.2 million, or four cents per diluted share, primarily related to thecompletion of China capacity consolidation actions commenced in 2001. Without the debt extinguishment charge and the businessconsolidation activity gain, net earnings in the quarter were $76.5 million, or $1.34 per diluted share.         For the first nine months of 2003, Ball's results were earnings of $174.6 million, or $3.05 per diluted share, on sales of$3.78 billion. A year ago through three quarters Ball reported earnings of $127.4 million, or $2.21 per diluted share, on sales of$2.95 billion. Excluding the debt extinguishment charge and the business consolidation activity gain, results for the first ninemonths of 2003 were earnings of $183.2 million, or $3.20 per diluted share.         R. David Hoover, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said the sharp improvement in Ball's third quarterresults over those in 2002 was due in large part to the addition of Ball Packaging Europe through an acquisition made inDecember 2002.         "Favorable summer weather throughout most of Europe, along with improved results from China, drove the strong performanceof our international packaging segment," Hoover said. "Sales also grew in our North American packaging segment, though earnings weredown as we continue to make progress with operational issues, particularly in food cans and plastic containers. Our aerospace andtechnologies segment has improved over last year's record performance levels with higher earnings in the third quarter andyear-to-date. We recently won a strategic piece of new business related to our superior capabilities in the field ofremote sensing."         Third quarter sales in the North American packaging segment were $907.7 million and earnings were $83.3 million, comparedto $882.7 million and $89.7 million in 2002.         Hoover said revenues from metal beverage containers, metal food containers and plastic containers all increased over thirdquarter 2002 levels. He said the company has made progress with the operation of its new high-speed line in Milwaukee for themanufacture of two-piece steel food cans. The demand for plastic bottles for soft drinks and water was not as great as had beenforecast, due in part to cool, wet weather in the Northeast and Upper Midwest where much of the company's plastic containeroperations are located. Hoover said the weather also negatively affected metal beverage container volumes, though to a lesser extentthan in plastic containers.         Third quarter sales in the international packaging segment were $326.4 million and earnings were $58.6 million. Through thefirst three quarters international packaging segment earnings were $123.3 million on sales of $876.1 million. Earnings for thequarter and the nine months include the business consolidation activity gain of $3.3 million.         "Strong performance from our plants in the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands and Poland helped offset the marketdisruption that has occurred in Germany due to the imposition of punitive deposits on one-way beverage packaging," Hoover said. "Wecontinue to work hard with all of the affected parties to find an acceptable solution to the situation that has been created inGermany. With a greater than 80 percent recycling rate, wide customer acceptance and all of the recognized benefits of beverages incans, we certainly believe there is a place for the beverage can in Germany once the deposit question is resolved or an effectivereturn system is put in place."         After the conclusion of the third quarter, Ball took a necessary step to address the supply/demand imbalance in Europe byannouncing it has begun consultations with the appropriate works councils and unions to close its beverage can manufacturing plantin Runcorn, England, and that it was accounted for in the opening balance sheet. After all activities associated with the plantclosing are completed, the after-tax cash impact will be positive by approximately $6 million. The expected future positive effecton after-tax earnings is anticipated to be approximately $2 million annually.         The aerospace and technologies segment had third quarter sales of $125.2 million and earnings of $10.6 million compared to$127.5 million and $9.6 million in the third quarter of 2002.         "We continue to be very pleased with the performance of Ball Aerospace," Hoover said. "Near the end of the quarter it wasannounced that the National Imagery and Mapping Agency had selected our customer, Digital Globe, for a five-year contract to providehigh-resolution imagery to NIMA through a series of commercial imagery satellites. We are pleased that Digital Globe has selected usto provide the state-of-the-art spacecraft and imaging camera for this program. Terms of the contract are not final, but weanticipate this will result in one of the larger single contracts in the history of Ball Aerospace."          "Prior to the net effect of the debt extinguishment charge and the business consolidation activity gain, we said weexpected our second half 2003 earnings per diluted share would exceed first half 2003 results of $1.84 per diluted share," Hooversaid. "That still could be the case, even with the charge and the gain, and certainly will be the case excluding them.         "No matter how you look at it, we believe 2003 will end up a very good year for Ball. We also believe we have the companywell positioned for further sustained growth in 2004," Hoover said.  "Aerospace is going to have a record yearend backlog. Our foodcan business should be much better next year with our Milwaukee expansion completed and fully operational. Plastic container salesshould rebound from the disappointing levels we have experienced this year, food can prices appear to have bottomed out in 2003, andwe are hopeful the German beverage can market will begin to recover from the negative effects of the deposit law."         Raymond J. Seabrook, senior vice president and chief financial officer, said the company has increased its free cash flowestimates and reduced its anticipated 2003 capital spending requirements.         "Our current estimate for full year 2003 free cash flow, excluding a withholding tax payment we made in January related tothe acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe, is in excess of $275 million," Seabrook said. "Capital spending for 2003 is nowanticipated to be in the $150 million range.         "The refinancing activities we concluded in the third quarter lowered our interest rates and extended maturities," Seabrookadded. "These lower interest rates will result in approximately a five-cent per diluted share annual improvement going forward andare just one more reason we are positive about prospects for 2004."         Ball Corporation is one of the world's leading suppliers of metal and plastic packaging to the beverage and foodindustries. The company also owns Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp.  With the addition of Ball Packaging Europe at the end of2002, Ball expects 2003 sales of approximately $4.9 billion, with approximately $4.4 billion from its two packaging segments andapproximately $500 million from its aerospace and technologies segment.         Ball Corporation will hold its quarterly conference call to discuss the company's third quarter performance today at 9 a.m.Mountain Time (11 a.m. Eastern). The North American toll-free number for the call is 888-214-7562. International callers should dial415-537-1802. For those unable to listen to the live call, a taped rebroadcast will be available until 11 a.m. on Nov. 4, 2003. Toaccess the rebroadcast, dial 800-633-8284 (domestic callers) or 402-977-9140 (international callers) and enter 21161982 as thereservation number.         To listen to the call via Web cast, please use the following URL for the live call and for replay:         http://www.corporate-ir.net/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=BLL&script=1010&item_id=791523         A written transcript of the call will also be posted within 48 hours of the call's conclusion to Ball's Web site atwww.ball.com in the investor relations section under "presentations."The information in this news release contains "forward-looking" statements. Actual results or outcomes may differ materially fromthose expressed or implied. As time passes, the relevance and accuracy of forward-looking statements contained in this release maychange. The company currently does not intend to update any particular forward-looking statement except as it deems necessary atquarterly or annual release of earnings. Please refer to the Form 10-Q filed by Ball Corporation on Aug. 12, 2003, for a summary ofkey risk factors that could affect actual results or outcomes. Factors that might affect the packaging segments of the company are:fluctuation in consumer and customer demand; competitive packaging material availability, pricing and substitution; the weather;fruit, vegetable and fishing yields; company and industry productive capacity and competitive activity; lack of productivityimprovement or production cost reductions; regulatory action or laws, including the German mandatory deposit or other restrictivepackaging laws and environmental and workplace safety regulations; availability and cost of raw materials, energy andtransportation; the ability or inability to pass on to customers changes in these costs, particularly resin, steel and aluminum;pricing and ability or inability to sell scrap; international business risks (including foreign exchange rates and tax rates)particularly in the United States, Europe and in developing countries such as China and Brazil; and the effect of LIFO accountingon earnings. Factors that may affect the aerospace segment are: funding, authorization and availability of government contracts andthe nature and continuation of those contracts; and technical uncertainty associated with aerospace segment contracts. Factors thatcould affect the company as a whole include those listed plus: successful and unsuccessful acquisitions, joint ventures ordivestitures and the integration activities associated therewith including the integration and operation of the business ofSchmalbach-Lubeca AG, now known as Ball Packaging Europe; the inability to purchase the company's common stock; insufficient orreduced cash flow; regulatory action or laws including those related to corporate governance and financial reporting, regulationsand standards; actual and estimated business consolidation and investment costs and the net realizable value of assets associatedwith these activities; goodwill impairment; changes in generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation; litigation;antitrust, intellectual property, consumer and other issues; strikes; boycotts; increases in various employee benefits and laborcosts, specifically pension, medical and health care costs incurred in the countries in which Ball has operations; rates of returnprojected and earned on assets of the company's defined benefit retirement plans; interest rates and level of company debt,including floating rate debt; terrorist activities, war or catastrophic events that disrupt or impact production, supply or pricingof the company's goods and services, including raw materials and energy costs, or disrupt or impact the credit and financing of thecompany's businesses; and U.S. and foreign economic conditions.                                                                 # # #
EXHIBIT 99.1
News                     Ball Corporation
For Immediate Release
http://www.ball.com
Ball Corporation Reports Sharp Improvement                                                       In Third Quarter Earnings
North American Packaging Segment
International Packaging Segment
Aerospace and Technologies Segment
Outlook
Conference Call Information
Forward-Looking Statements
   Condensed Financials (3rd quarter 2003)
   Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets
Notes to Condensed Financials (3rd quarter 2003)
1. Business Segment Information
Notes to Condensed Financials (3rd quarter 2003)
2. Business Consolidation and Debt Extinguishment Costs
In the third quarter of 2003, the company recorded $3.5 million of earnings ($2.2 million after tax) related to the completion of China and Aerospace consolidation activities commenced in 2001. Also in the third quarter 2003, the company used the proceeds from a $250 million privately placed addition to its existing 6.875 percent senior notes due December 2012 to redeem its 8.25 percent senior subordinated notes that were due in 2008. This activity resulted in a third quarter after-tax charge of approximately $9.9 million, or 17 cents per diluted share, for early extinguishment of the higher interest debt.
In the first quarter of 2003, Ball announced its plan to close its Blytheville, Arkansas, metal food container plant to address decreased demand for three-piece welded cans. In connection with the closure, we recorded a charge of $1.9 million ($1.2 million after tax). This first quarter charge was partially offset by a $0.3 million after-tax gain on the sale of a Canadian plant that was included in a restructuring charge taken in 2000. A summary of the effects of the above transactions on after-tax earnings follows:
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
Ball's management segregates the above items related to closed facilities and debt refinancing to evaluate the company's performance of current operations. The above is presented on a non-U.S. GAAP basis and should be considered in connection with the unaudited statements of consolidated earnings. Non-U.S. GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings.
Notes to Condensed Financials (3rd quarter 2003)
3. Projected Free Cash Flow
Ball's management utilizes various accounting measures (1) to evaluate the company's operating results, (2) for planning purposes, (3) to evaluate strategic investments and (4) to evaluate the company's ability to incur and service debt. The company internally uses free cash flow to project cash flow. Free cash flow is not a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (a non-U.S. GAAP measure). Non-U.S. GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
Free cash flow is defined as cash flows from operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment (capital spending). Cash flow from operating activities is the most comparable GAAP term to free cash flow. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. Free cash flow is typically derived directly from the company's cash flow statements, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; however, from time to time, it may be adjusted for items that affect comparability between periods. An example of such an item excluded in 2003 is a $138 million withholding tax payment liability assumed in the acquisition of Schmalbach-Lubeca GmbH on December 19, 2002. Because the seller paid the cash into the company prior to the acquisition to fund this payment, which was not made until January 2003, we believe this is not a comparable free cash outflow of the company as this cash outflow was funded by the seller and, therefore, we exclude it from our 2003 projected free cash flow measure. Based on our current 2003 capital spending forecast of $150 million or less and the adjustment for the withholding tax above, our projected free cash flow should exceed $275 million in 2003.


