FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20060330165943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Indenture and First Supplemental Indenture
 
On March 27, 2006, Ball Corporation completed the sale of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.625% senior notes due 2018 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued under an Indenture, dated March 27, 2006 (the "Base Indenture"), among Ball Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, dated March 27, 2006 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), among Ball Corporation, the guarantors named therein and the Trustee. The Indenture and the form of note, which is attached as an exhibit to the Indenture, provides, among other things, that the Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of Ball Corporation.
 
Interest is payable on the Notes on March 15 and September 15 of each year beginning on September 15, 2006 until their maturity date of March 15, 2018. Ball Corporation may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time prior to March 15, 2011 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes redeemed plus an applicable make-whole premium. On or after March 15, 2011, Ball Corporation may redeem all or a portion of the Notes at redemption prices set forth in the Supplemental Indenture. In addition, at any time prior to March 15, 2009, Ball Corporation may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes at a redemption price of 106.625% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed with the net proceeds of certain equity offerings.
 
Ball Corporation's payment obligations under the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured senior basis by its existing and future material domestic subsidiaries, other than certain excluded subsidiaries and unrestricted subsidiaries. The Notes are not guaranteed by any of Ball Corporation's foreign subsidiaries.
 
The terms of the Indenture, among other things, limit the ability of Ball Corporation to: incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; pay dividends or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; create liens; allow restrictions on the ability of certain of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it; sell assets; merge or consolidate with other entities; and enter into transactions with affiliates.
 
The Indenture provides for customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in the Indenture; defaults in failure to pay certain other indebtedness; the failure to pay certain final judgments; the failure of certain guarantees to be enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency. Generally, if an event of default occurs, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding series of Notes may declare all the Notes of such series to be due and payable immediately.
 
A copy of the Base Indenture is attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the Supplemental Indenture is attached as Exhibit 4.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. The description of the material terms of the Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to such exhibits.
 
New Senior Credit Facility
 
On March 27, 2006, Ball Corporation, Ball European Holdings S.ar.l., various financial institutions party thereto as lenders, Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, as administrative agent for the lenders, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as joint lead arrangers, entered into an amendment to Ball Corporation's existing credit agreement, dated as of October 13, 2005, which amendment, among other things, provides for a new $500 million secured term loan facility which will terminate on October 13, 2011 (the "Term D Loan Facility").
 
The following is a description of the material terms that are included in the Term D Loan Facility.
Amortization
 
The loans under the Term D Loan Facility are amortized quarterly from December 31, 2007, through the date of maturity according to the following schedule:
 
 
Interest
 
For purposes of calculating interest, loans under the Term D Loan Facility are designated as eurocurrency rate loans or, in certain circumstances, base rate loans.
 
Eurocurrency rate loans that are U.S. dollar denominated bear interest at the interbank eurocurrency rate plus a borrowing margin as described below. Eurocurrency rate loans that are non-U.S. dollar denominated bear interest at the LIBOR rate for Sterling and EURIBOR rate for Euros plus a borrowing margin as described below. Interest on eurocurrency rate loans is payable at the end of the applicable interest period in the case of interest periods of one, two or three months and every three months in the case of interest periods of six months or longer.
 
Base rate loans bear interest at (a) the greater of (i) the rate most recently announced by Deutsche Bank as its "prime rate" or (ii) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1% per annum; plus (b) a borrowing margin as described below. Interest on base rate loans is payable quarterly in arrears.
 
 
Security and Guarantees
 
The Term D Loan Facility is guaranteed by Ball Corporation and all of its present and future material domestic subsidiaries and is secured by a valid first priority perfected lien or pledge on the capital stock securing the facilities (but not the capital stock securing only the indebtedness of the foreign subsidiary borrowers) under Ball Corporation's existing credit agreement.
 
Covenants, Mandatory Prepayments, Events of Default
 
The Term D Loan Facility is subject to the same covenants, mandatory prepayment provisions and events of default applicable to Ball Corporation's existing credit facilities under its credit agreement.
 
A copy of the Amendment to Ball Corporation's existing credit agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. The description of the material terms of the amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to such exhibit.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of the Registrant
 
The disclosures under Item 1.01(a) of this Current Report on Form 8-K relating to the Indenture, the Notes and the New Senior Credit Facility are also responsive to Item 2.03 of this report and are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Securities
 
On March 27, 2006, in connection with the acquisition of the United States and Argentinean operations of U.S. Can Corporation pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger, dated February 14, 2006, Ball Corporation issued an aggregate of 758,961 shares of its common stock, representing less than 1% of the outstanding shares of Ball Corporation common stock. The issuance of these securities was deemed to be exempt from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Regulation D thereunder, as a transaction by an issuer not involving a public offering.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
BALL CORPORATION
 
 
INDENTURE
 
DATED AS OF MARCH 27, 2006
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
 
Trustee
 
 
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE*
 
 
N.A. means not applicable.
*This Cross-Reference Table is not part of this Indenture.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
INDENTURE dated as of March 27, 2006 by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the "") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
 
The Company and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes issued under this Indenture.
 
ARTICLE 1.
DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 
Section 1.01          
Definitions.
 
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; , that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Voting Stock of a Person shall be deemed to be in control. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings.
Affiliate
provided
 
"" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar.
Agent
 
"" in respect of a sale and leaseback transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such sale and leaseback transaction including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value shall be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Attributable Debt
 
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
"" means:
Board of Directors
 
with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on behalf of such board;
(1)
                                 
 
with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership;
(2)
                                 
 
with respect to a limited liability company, the managing member or members or any controlling committee of managing members or managers thereof; and
(3)
                                 
 
with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
(4)
                                 
 
means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been adopted by the Board of Directors or pursuant to authorization by the Board of Directors and to be paid in full force and effect on the date of the certificate and delivered to the Trustee.
"Board Resolution"
"" means any day other than a Legal Holiday.
Business Day
 
"" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
"" means:
Capital Stock
 
(1)           in the case of a corporation, corporate stock;
 
(2)           in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents, however designated, of corporate stock;
 
(3)           in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests, whether general or limited; and
 
(4)           any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person.
 
"" means Ball Corporation, and any and all successors thereto.
Company
 
means a written order signed in the name of the Company by two Officers, one of whom must be the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer.
"Company Order"
 
"" shall be at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 12.02 hereof or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Company.
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee
 
"" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
 
"" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means, with respect to the Notes of any Series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Notes, the person designated as Depositary for such Series by the Company, which Depositary shall be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act; and if at any time there is more than one such person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Notes of any Series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Notes of such Series.
Depositary
 
"" means any Note that provides for an amount less than the stated principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02.
Discount Note
 
and means the currency of The United States of America.
"Dollars"
"$"
 
means the European Currency Unit as determined by the Commission of the European Union.
"ECU"
 
"" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock, but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock.
Equity Interests
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
means any currency or currency unit issued by a government other than the government of The United States of America.
"Foreign Currency"
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable as of the date of this Indenture.
GAAP
 
or means a Note or Notes, as the case may be, in the form established pursuant to Section 2.02 evidencing all or part of a Series of Notes, issued to the Depositary for such Series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depositary or nominee.
"Global Note"
"Global Notes"
 
"" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America, and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit.
Government Securities
 
"" means a guarantee, other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Indebtedness.
Guarantee
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under:
Hedging Obligations
 
(1)           interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements; and
 
(2)           other agreements or arrangements in respect of such Person's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, currency exchange rates or interest rates and, in each case, not entered into for speculative purposes.
 
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered.
Holder
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent:
Indebtedness
 
(1)           in respect of borrowed money;
 
(2)           evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit, or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof;
 
(3)           in respect of banker's acceptances;
 
(4)           representing Capital Lease Obligations;
 
(5)           representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable; or
 
(6)           representing any Hedging Obligations,
if and to the extent any of the preceding items, other than letters of credit and Hedging Obligations, would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of the specified Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the term "Indebtedness" includes all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person, and, to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by the specified Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person or any liability of any person, whether or not contingent and whether or not it appears on the balance sheet of such Person.
 
The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date shall be:
 
(1)           the accreted value of the Indebtedness, in the case of any Indebtedness that does not require the current payment of interest; and
 
(2)           the principal amount of the Indebtedness, together with any interest on the Indebtedness that is more than 30 days past due, in the case of any other Indebtedness.
 
"" means this Indenture, as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time and shall include the form and terms of particular Series of Notes established as contemplated hereunder.
Indenture
 
"" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, the city in which the principal office of the Trustee is located or at a place of payment are authorized by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or any lease in the nature thereof; that in no event shall an operating lease be deemed to constitute a Lien.
Lien
provided
 
"" means notes or other debt instruments of the Company of any Series issued under this Indenture.
Notes
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person.
Officer
 
"" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be a vice-president, the principal financial officer, the treasurer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 hereof.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means an opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee, that meets the requirements of Sections 11.04 and 11.05 hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
"" when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" or "" means each series of debentures, notes or other debt instruments of the Company created pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 2.02 hereof.
Series
Series of Notes
 
"" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and shall not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
Stated Maturity
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person:
Subsidiary
 
(1)           any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled, without regard to the occurrence of any contingency, to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person; and
 
(2)           any partnership (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or an entity described in clause (1) and related to such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or one or more entities described in clause (1) and related to such Person, or any combination thereof.
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of this Indenture; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1938 is amended after such date, "TIA" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act as so amended.
TIA
provided
however
 
means the person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean each person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Notes of any Series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Notes of that Series.
"Trustee"
 
"" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
Section 1.02          
Other Definitions.
 
Section 1.03          
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
 
The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
means the SEC;
"Commission"
 
"" means the Notes;
indenture securities
 
"" means a Holder of a Note;
indenture security holder
 
"" means this Indenture;
indenture to be qualified
 
"" or "" means the Trustee; and
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
 
"" on the indenture securities means the Company, and any successor obligor upon the Notes.
obligor
 
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
 
Section 1.04          
Rules of Construction.
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1)           a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(2)           an accounting term not otherwise defined herein has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3)           "or" is not exclusive;
 
(4)           words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
 
(5)           provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and
(6)           references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act shall be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time.
ARTICLE 2.
THE NOTES
 
Section 2.01
           Issuable in Series.    
The aggregate principal amount of Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Notes may be issued in one or more Series. All Notes of a Series shall be identical except as may be set forth in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate detailing the adoption of the terms thereof pursuant to the authority granted under a Board Resolution. In the case of Notes of a Series to be issued from time to time, the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture detailing the adoption of the terms thereof pursuant to authority granted under a Board Resolution may provide for the method by which specified terms (such as interest rate, maturity date, record date or date from which interest shall accrue) are to be determined. Notes may differ between Series in respect of any matters, that all Series of Notes shall be equally and ratably entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
provided
 
Section 2.02          
Establishment of Terms of Series of Notes.
 
At or prior to the issuance of any Notes within a Series, the following shall be established (as to the Series generally, in the case of Subsection 2.02(a) and either as to such Notes within the Series or as to the Series generally in the case of Subsections 2.02(b) through 2.02(a)) by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth or determined in the manner provided in a Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate pursuant to authority granted under a Board Resolution:
 
(a)           the title of the Series (which shall distinguish the Notes of that particular Series from the Notes of any other Series);
 
(b)           the price or prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount thereof) at which the Notes of the Series will be issued;
 
(c)           any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Notes of the Series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes of the Series pursuant to Section 2.07, 2.08, 2.11, 3.06 or 9.05;
 
(d)           the date or dates on which the principal of the Notes of the Series is payable;
 
(e)           the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) per annum or, if applicable, the method used to determine such rate or rates (including, but not limited to, any commodity, commodity index, stock exchange index or financial index) at which the Notes of the Series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which such interest, if any, shall accrue, the date or dates on which such interest, if any, shall commence and be payable and any regular record date for the interest payable on any interest payment date;
 
(f)            the place or places where the principal of and interest, if any, on the Notes of the Series shall be payable, where the Notes of such Series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes of such Series and this Indenture may be served, and the method of such payment, if by wire transfer, mail or other means;
(g)           if applicable, the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which the Notes of the Series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
 
(h)           the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase the Notes of the Series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Notes of the Series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(i)            the dates, if any, on which and the price or prices at which the Notes of the Series will be repurchased by the Company at the option of the Holders thereof and other detailed terms and provisions of such repurchase obligations;
 
(j)            if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the Notes of the Series shall be issuable;
 
(k)           the forms of the Notes of the Series in bearer or fully registered form (and, if in fully registered form, whether the Notes will be issuable as Global Notes);
 
(l)            if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of the Notes of the Series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02;
 
(m)          the currency of denomination of the Notes of the Series, which may be Dollars or any Foreign Currency, including, but not limited to, the ECU, and if such currency of denomination is a composite currency other than the ECU, the agency or organization, if any, responsible for overseeing such composite currency;
 
(n)           the designation of the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Notes of the Series will be made;
 
(o)           if payments of principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes of the Series are to be made in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which such Notes are denominated, the manner in which the exchange rate with respect to such payments will be determined;
 
(p)           the manner in which the amounts of payment of principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes of the Series will be determined, if such amounts may be determined by reference to an index based on a currency or currencies or by reference to a commodity, commodity index, stock exchange index or financial index;
 
(q)           the provisions, if any, relating to any security or guarantee provided for the Notes of the Series, and any subordination in right of payment, if any, of the Notes of the Series;
 
(r)            any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Notes of the Series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Notes to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 6.02;
 
(s)           any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Articles 4 or 5 which applies to Notes of the Series;
(t)            any other terms of the Notes of the Series (which may modify or delete any provision of this Indenture insofar as it applies to such Series); and
 
(u)           any depositories, interest rate calculation agents, exchange rate calculation agents or other agents with respect to Notes of such Series if other than those appointed herein.
 
All Notes of any one Series need not be issued at the same time and may be issued from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Indenture, if so provided by or pursuant to the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate referred to above, and the authorized principal amount of any Series may not be increased to provide for issuances of additional Notes of such Series, unless otherwise provided in such Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate.
 
Section 2.03          
Execution and Authentication.
 
One Officer shall sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature. If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time such Note is authenticated, such Note shall nevertheless be valid.
 
A Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note, as applicable, has been authenticated under this Indenture.
 
The Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Company signed by one Officer (an ""), authenticate Notes for original issue in accordance with this Indenture.
Authentication Order
 
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company.
 
Section 2.04          
Registrar and Paying Agent.
 
The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (""). The Registrar shall keep a register with respect to each Series of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Registrar
Paying Agent
 
The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes.
 
Section 2.05          
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust.
 
The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust, for the benefit of Holders of any Series of Notes, or the Trustee, all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal or interest on the Series of Notes, and shall
notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of Holders of any Series of Notes all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Notes.
 
Section 2.06          
Holder Lists.
 
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders of each Series of Notes and shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders of each Series of Notes and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a).
 
Section 2.07          
Transfer and Exchange.
 
Where Notes of a Series are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Notes of the same Series, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange if its requirements for such transactions are met. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Trustee shall authenticate Notes at the Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.06 or 9.05).
 
Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Notes of any Series for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes of that Series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Notes of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Notes selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
 
Section 2.08          
Replacement Notes.
 
If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, the Company shall issue and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate a replacement Note of the same Series if the Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. The Company may charge for its expenses in replacing a Note.
 
Every replacement Note of any Series is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Notes of that Series duly issued hereunder.
Section 2.09          
Outstanding Notes.
 
The Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Note effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note.
 
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser.
 
If the principal amount of any Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue.
 
If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Notes shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding and shall cease to accrue interest.
 
Section 2.10          
Treasury Notes.
 
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes of a Series have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, shall be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes of a Series that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
 
Section 2.11          
Temporary Notes.
 
Until certificates representing Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of certificated Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes and as shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
 
Holders of temporary Notes shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Section 2.12          
Cancellation.
 
The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall return such canceled Notes to the Company. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that it has paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
Section 2.13          
Defaulted Interest.
 
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on a Series of Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner , to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the
plus
Persons who are Holders of the Series on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment. The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, that no such special record date shall be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) shall mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.
provided
 
Section 2.14          
Global Notes.
 
(a)           . A Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate shall establish whether the Notes of a Series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Notes and the Depositary for such Global Note or Notes.
Terms of Notes
 
(b)           . Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in Section 2.07 of the Indenture and in addition thereto, any Global Note shall be exchangeable pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Indenture for Notes registered in the names of Holders other than the Depositary for such Note or its nominee only if (i) such Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Note or if at any time such Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and, in either case, the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act within 90 days of such event, (ii) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that such Global Note shall be so exchangeable or (iii) an Event of Default with respect to the Notes represented by such Global Note shall have happened and be continuing. Any Global Note that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for Notes registered in such names as the Depositary shall direct in writing in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Note with like tenor and terms.
Transfer and Exchange
 
Except as provided in this Section 2.14(b), a Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary with respect to such Global Note to a nominee of such Depositary, by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
 
(c)           . Any Global Note issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Legend
 
"This Note is a Global Note within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Note is exchangeable for Notes registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary."
 
(d)           . The Depositary, as a Holder, may appoint agents and otherwise authorize participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which a Holder is entitled to give or take under the Indenture.
Acts of Holders
(e)           . Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Indenture, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.02, payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on any Global Note shall be made to the Holder thereof.
Payments
 
(f)            . Except as provided in Section 2.14(e), the Company, the Trustee and any Agent shall treat a person as the Holder of such principal amount of outstanding Notes of such Series represented by a Global Note as shall be specified in a written statement of the Depositary with respect to such Global Note, for purposes of obtaining any consents, declarations, waivers or directions required to be given by the Holders pursuant to this Indenture.
Consents, Declaration and Directions
 
Section 2.15          
CUSIP Number.
 
The Company in issuing the Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or the omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
provided
 
ARTICLE 3.
REDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENT
 
Section 3.01          
Notice to Trustee.
 
The Company may, with respect to any Series of Notes, reserve the right to redeem and pay the Series of Notes or may covenant to redeem and pay the Series of Notes or any part thereof prior to the Stated Maturity thereof at such time and on such terms as provided for in such Notes. If a Series of Notes is redeemable and the Company wants or is obligated to redeem prior to the Stated Maturity thereof all or part of the Series of Notes pursuant to the terms of such Notes, it shall notify the Trustee of the redemption date and the principal amount of Series of Notes to be redeemed. The Company shall give the notice at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date (or such shorter notice as may be acceptable to the Trustee).
 
Section 3.02          
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed.
 
If less than all of the Notes of a Series are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Trustee shall select the Notes of a Series to be redeemed or purchased among the Holders of the Notes (a) in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes are listed or, (b) if the Notes are not so listed, on a basis, by lot or in accordance with any other method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate. In the event of partial redemption or purchase by lot, the particular Notes to be redeemed shall be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Trustee from the outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption or purchase. The Trustee may select for redemption or repurchase portions of the principal of Notes of the Series that have denominations larger than $1,000.
pro rata
 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. Notes of a Series and portions of them selected shall be in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000 or. With respect to Notes of any Series issuable in other denominations pursuant to Section 2.02(j), the minimum principal denomination for each Series and integral multiples thereof. Except as
provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes of a Series called for redemption or repurchase also apply to portions of Notes of a Series called for redemption or repurchase.
 
Section 3.03          
Notice of Redemption.
 
Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address.
 
The notice shall identify the Notes of the Series to be redeemed and shall state:
 
(1)           the redemption date;
 
(2)           the redemption price;
 
(3)           the name and address of the Paying Agent;
 
(4)           that Notes of the Series called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
 
(5)           that interest on Notes of the Series called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
 
(6)           the CUSIP number, if any; and
 
(7)           any other information as may be required by the terms of the particular Series of the Notes or the Notes of a Series being redeemed.
 
At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense.
 
Section 3.04          
Effect of Notice of Redemption.
 
Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional.
 
Section 3.05          
Deposit of Redemption Price.
 
One Business Day prior to the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Notes to be redeemed on that date. The Trustee or the Paying Agent shall promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, all Notes to be redeemed.
 
If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or the portions of Notes called for redemption. If a Note is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding
paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof.
 
Section 3.06          
Notes Redeemed in Part.
 
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall issue and, upon the Company's written request, the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder, at the expense of the Company, a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered.
 
No Notes of $1,000 or less can be redeemed in part.
 
ARTICLE 4.
COVENANTS
 
Section 4.01          
Payment of Principal and Interest.
 
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Notes that it will pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in such Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest on any Series of Notes will be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest then due.
 
Section 4.02          
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
 
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Notes that it will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee for such Notes or an affiliate of such Trustee, Registrar for such Notes or co-registrar) where such Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of such Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee for such Notes of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Administration Office of the Trustee.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where Holders of a Series of Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee for such Series of Notes of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided, however,
 
With respect to each Series of Notes, the Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee for such Notes as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.03.
Section 4.03          
Reports.
 
Whether or not the Company is required by the SEC, so long as any Series of Notes are outstanding, the Company shall furnish to the Holders of such Notes, within the time periods (including any extensions thereof) specified in the SEC's rules and regulations:
(a)          
 
all quarterly and annual reports that would be required to be filed with the Commission on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file reports; and
(1)          
 
(2)           all current reports that would be required to be filed with the SEC on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports.
 
In addition, whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company shall file a copy of all such information and reports referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above with the SEC for public availability within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations, unless the SEC will not accept such a filing, and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request. The Company shall at all times comply with TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
(b)           For so long as any Series of Notes remain outstanding, if at any time they are not required to file with the Commission the reports required by paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section 4.03, the Company and any guarantors of such Notes will furnish to the Holders of such Notes and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
Section 4.04          
Compliance Certificate.
 
(a)           The Company and each guarantor of any Series of Notes (to the extent that such guarantor is so required under the TIA) shall deliver to the Trustee with respect to such Series, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
(b)           The Company shall, so long as any of Series of Notes are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee with respect to such Series, as soon as possible, but in no event later than five days after any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Section 4.05          
Taxes.
 
The Company shall pay, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 4.06          
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws.
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not, and each guarantor of such Notes shall not, at any time, insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company and each of such guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so), as applicable, hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee for such Notes, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
 
Section 4.07          
Corporate Existence.
 
Subject to Articles 5 and 10 hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect (i) its corporate existence, and the corporate, partnership or other existence of each of its Subsidiaries, in accordance with the respective organizational documents (as the same may be amended from time to time) of the Company, any such Subsidiary and (ii) the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company and its Subsidiaries; , that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise, or the corporate, partnership or other existence of any of its Subsidiaries, if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
provided, however
 
ARTICLE 5.
SUCCESSORS
 
Section 5.01          
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets.
 
The Company shall not, directly or indirectly: (1) consolidate or merge with or into another person, whether or not the Company is the surviving corporation, or (2) sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to another Person unless:
 
(i) either: (a) the Company is the surviving corporation; or (b) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made is a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia;
 
(ii) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Notes and this Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
 
(iii) immediately after such transaction no Default or Event of Default exists.
 
The Company may not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of the properties or assets, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person. The provisions of this Section 5.01 shall not apply to (1) a merger of the Company with an Affiliate solely for the purpose of reincorporating the Company in another jurisdiction or forming a direct holding company of the Company or (2) to a sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
Section 5.02          
Successor Corporation Substituted.
 
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 hereof, the successor person formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the "Company" shall refer instead to the successor corporation and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; , that the predecessor Company shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on any Series of Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Company's assets that meets the requirements of Section 5.01 hereof.
provided, however
 
ARTICLE 6.
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
 
Section 6.01          
Events of Default.
 
"Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Notes of any Series, means any one of the following events, unless in the establishing Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate, it is provided that such Series shall not have the benefit of said Event of Default:
 
(1)           default in the payment of any interest on any Note of that Series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
 
(2)           default in payment when due of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any Note of that Series; or
 
(3)           default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due in respect of any Note of that Series; or
 
(4)           default in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty that has been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of Series of Notes other than that Series), which default continues uncured for a period of 30 days after written notice given by the Trustees for such Notes or Holders of such Notes; or
 
(5)           default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of the indenture, if that default:
(a)           is caused by a failure to pay principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a ""); or
Payment Default
 
(b)           results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity, and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $100.0 million or more;
 
(6)           one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100.0 million (excluding therefrom any amount reasonably expected to be covered by insurance) shall be rendered against the Company any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall not have been paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days after such judgment became final and nonappealable;
 
(7)           the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
 
(a)           commences a voluntary case,
 
(b)           consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,
 
(c)           consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property,
 
(d)           makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or
 
(e)           generally is unable to pay its debts as the same become due; or
 
(8)           a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
(a)           is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case,
 
(b)           appoints a Custodian of the Company or for all or substantially all of its property, or
 
(c)           orders the liquidation of the Company, and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days; or
 
(9)           any other Event of Default provided with respect to Notes of that Series, which is specified in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, in accordance with Section 2.02.
 
Section 6.02          
Acceleration.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of any Series at the time outstanding occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default referred to in Section 6.1(7) or (8)) then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that Series may declare the principal amount (or, if any Notes of that Series are Discount Notes, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such Notes) of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all of the Notes of that Series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the
Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(7) or (8) shall occur, the principal amount (or specified amount) of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
 
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to any Series has been made, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that Series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default (except nonpayment of principal, interest or premium that has become due solely because of the acceleration) have been cured or waived.
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
Section 6.03          
Other Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of any Series at the time outstanding occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest on such Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of such Notes or this Indenture.
 
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
 
Section 6.04          
Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of any Series then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under this Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Notes (including in connection with an offer to purchase); , , that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of any Series may rescind an acceleration of such Notes and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration. Upon any such waiver, such Default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
provided
however
 
Section 6.05          
Control by Majority.
 
Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of any Series may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Notes or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability.
Section 6.06          
Limitation on Suits.
 
A Holder of any Series of Notes may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes only if:
 
(a)           the Holder of a Note gives to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default;
 
(b)           the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of such Series make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
 
(c)           such Holder of a Note or Holders of Notes offer and, if requested, provide to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(d)           the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer and, if requested, the provision of indemnity; and
 
(e)           during such 60-day period the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request.
 
A Holder of any Series of Notes may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of such Series of Notes or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of Notes of such Series.
 
Section 6.07          
Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 6.08          
Collection Suit by Trustee.
 
If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as Trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on the Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
Section 6.09          
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
The Trustee for each Series of Notes is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation,
expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
Section 6.10          
Priorities.
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
:  to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
First
 
:  to Holders of the Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium, if any and interest, respectively; and
Second
 
:  to the Company.
Third
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10.
 
Section 6.11          
Undertaking for Costs.
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes of any Series.
 
ARTICLE 7.
TRUSTEE
 
Section 7.01          
Duties of Trustee.
 
(a)           If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
(b)           Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(i)            the duties of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(ii)           in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates of opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
 
(c)           The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(i)            this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section;
 
(ii)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
(iii)          the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof.
 
(d)           Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) of this Section and Section 7.02.
 
(e)           No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder shall have offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f)            The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 7.02          
Rights of Trustee.
 
(a)           The Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
 
(b)           Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and
complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
 
(c)           The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
 
(d)           The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(e)           Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company issuing such demand, request or notice.
 
(f)            The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
 
(g)           Whenever in the administration of this Indenture, the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate.
 
(h)           The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a Default or Event of Default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture.
 
(i)            The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
 
(j)            The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
 
Section 7.03          
Individual Rights of Trustee.
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. However, in the event the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the SEC for permission to continue as Trustee or resign. Any Agent may exercise the same rights, with the same duties, as the Trustee under this Section 7.03. The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof.
Section 7.04          
Trustee's Disclaimer.
 
The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision of this Indenture, it shall not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, and it shall not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Notes or pursuant to this Indenture other than its certificate of authentication.
 
Section 7.05          
Notice of Defaults.
 
If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to Holders of Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal of or interest on any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice from Holders of the Notes if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 7.06          
Reports by Trustee to Holders of the Notes.
 
Within 60 days after each August 1 beginning with the August 1 following the date of this Indenture, and for so long as Notes remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to the Holders of the Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA Section 313(a) (but if no event described in TIA Section 313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b)(2). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA Section 313(c).
 
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Notes shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed in accordance with TIA Section 313(d). The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
 
Section 7.07          
Compensation and Indemnity.
 
The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation as agreed upon in writing for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a Trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
 
The Company shall indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (including taxes other than taxes based upon the income of the Trustee) incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture against the Company (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its
obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
The obligations of the Company under this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Notes. Such Lien shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or (h) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 313(b)(2) to the extent applicable.
 
Section 7.08          
Replacement of Trustee.
 
A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section.
 
The Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company. The Holders of Notes of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
 
(a)           the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof;
 
(b)           the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
 
(c)           a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(d)           the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of Notes of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder of a Note who has been a Holder of a Note for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder of a Note may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders of the Notes. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, all sums owing to the Trustee (including its agents and/or counsel) hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 hereof shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
provided
 
Section 7.09          
Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc.
 
If the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
 
Section 7.10          
Eligibility; Disqualification.
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate Trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $100 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
 
This Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA Section 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 310(b).
 
Section 7.11          
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
 
The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
Section 7.12          
Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company.
 
Any application by the Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Trustee under this Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by, or omission of, the Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to the taking of such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted.
ARTICLE 8.
LEGAL DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
 
Section 8.01          
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8.
 
Section 8.02          
Legal Defeasance and Discharge.
 
Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes of Such Series (including the related guarantees, if any) on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Notes of such Series (including the related guarantees, if any), which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all of their other obligations under such Notes, such guarantees, if any and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:  (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Notes to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.04 hereof, and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, interest on, if any, on such Notes when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to the Notes under Article 2 and Section 4.02 hereof, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's obligations in connection therewith and (d) this Article 8. Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof.
Legal Defeasance
 
Section 8.03          
Covenant Defeasance.
 
Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company and each of the guarantors, if any, will subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from their obligations under the covenants contained in Section 4.03 with respect to the outstanding Notes of the applicable Series on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Notes shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes of such Series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(d) through 6.01(f) hereof shall not constitute Events of Default.
Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.04          
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof to the outstanding Notes:
 
In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance:
 
(a)           the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in United States dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, interest and premium, if any, on the outstanding Notes of such Series on the stated maturity or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Notes are being defeased to maturity or to a particular redemption date;
 
(b)           in the case of an election under Section 8.02 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable U.S. federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(c)           in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(d)           no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit, other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the incurrence of Indebtedness all or a portion of the proceeds of which will be used to defease the Notes pursuant to this Article 8 concurrently with such incurrence, or insofar as Sections 6.01(h) or 6.01(i) hereof is concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit;
 
(e)           such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument, other than this Indenture, to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
 
(f)            the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of the Notes over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others; and
 
(g)           the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
Section 8.05          
Deposited Money and Government Securities to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
 
Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the "") pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes of any Series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Trustee
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes of the applicable Series.
 
Anything in this Article 8 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(a) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
Section 8.06          
Repayment to Company.
 
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Series of Notes and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the reasonable expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Company.
provided, however
 
Section 8.07          
Reinstatement.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's and any applicable guarantors' obligations under this Indenture and the applicable Notes and the guarantees shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; , that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights
provided, however
of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
 
ARTICLE 9.
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
 
Section 9.01          
Without Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes of one or more Series without the consent of any Holder of a Note:
 
(1)           to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
 
(2)           to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
 
(3)           to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to the Holders of the Notes by a successor to the Company pursuant to Article 5 hereof;
 
(4)           to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights hereunder of any Holder of a Note;
 
(5)           to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA
 
(6)           to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of Notes of any Series as permitted by this Indenture; or
 
(7)           to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes of one or more Series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee.
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company in the execution of any amended or supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee will not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
Section 9.02          
With Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
The Company and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of each Series affected by such supplemental indenture (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes of such Series), for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Notes of each such Series. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of each Series by notice to the Trustee (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange
offer for the Notes of such Series) may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes with respect to such Series.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture.
 
After a supplemental indenture or waiver under this section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture or waiver. Any failure by the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture or waiver. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not, with respect to any Notes held by a non-consenting Holder:
 
(a)           reduce the principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment or waiver;
 
(b)           reduce the principal of or change the fixed maturity of any Note or alter or waive any of the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Notes;
 
(c)           reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest, including default interest, on any Note;
 
(d)           waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on the Notes, except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration:
 
(e)           make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Notes;
 
(f)            make any change in the provisions of this Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of the Notes to receive payments of principal of or premium, interest, if any, on the Notes; or
 
(g)           make any change in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions.
 
Section 9.03          
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every amendment to this Indenture or the Notes of one or more Series shall be set forth in a supplemental indenture hereto that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
Section 9.04          
Revocation and Effect of Consents.
 
Until an amendment or waiver becomes effective, consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to his Note or portion of a Note if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver becomes effective. An amendment or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
 
Section 9.05          
Notation on or Exchange of Notes.
 
The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment or waiver on any Note of any Series thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for Notes of that Series may issue and the Trustee shall authenticate upon request new Notes of that Series that reflect the amendment or waiver.
 
Section 9.06          
Trustee Protected.
 
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee shall sign all supplemental indentures, except that the Trustee need not sign any supplemental indenture that adversely affects its rights.
 
ARTICLE 10.
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
 
Section 10.01        
Satisfaction and Discharge.
 
This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to a Series of Notes issued hereunder, when:
 
(1)           either:
 
(a)           all such Notes that have been authenticated (except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(b)           all such Notes that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders of such Notes, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities, in such amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
(2)           no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit or will occur as a result of such deposit and such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any guarantor, as applicable, is a party or by which the Company or any guarantor, as applicable, is bound;
 
(3)           the Company or any guarantor of such Notes has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it under this Indenture; and
 
(4)           the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of the Notes at maturity or the redemption date, as the case may be.
 
In addition, the Company must deliver an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied
.
 
Section 10.02        
Application of Trust Money.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 8.06 hereof, all money deposited with a Trustee pursuant to Section 10.1 hereof shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Notes with respect to which such deposit was made and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as such Trustee may determine, to the persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with such Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
If such Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or Government Securities in accordance with Section 10.01 hereof by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's and any applicable guarantor's obligations under this Indenture and the applicable Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof; that if the Company has made any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money or Government Securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
 
ARTICLE 11.
MISCELLANEOUS
 
Section 11.01        
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA Section 318(c), the imposed duties shall control.
 
Section 11.02        
Notices.
 
Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address.
 
If to the Company:
 
Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: Treasurer
 
If to the Trustee:
 
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. 700 S. Flower Street, Suite 500 Los Angeles, CA 90017 Telecopier No.:  (213) 630-6298 Attention:  Corporate Trust Administration
 
The Company or the Trustee, by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail postage prepaid, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA Section 313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
 
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
 
Section 11.03        
Communication by Holders of Notes with Other Holders of Notes.
 
Holders of any Series may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders of the Series or any other Series with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes of that Series or all Series. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
 
Section 11.04        
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
(a)           an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and
(b)           an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been complied with.
 
Section 11.05        
Statements Required in Certificate.
 
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA Section 314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA Section 314(e) and shall include:
 
(a)           a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
(b)           a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(c)           a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and
 
(d)           a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied.
 
Section 11.06        
Rules by Trustee and Agents.
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
 
Section 11.07        
Calculation of Foreign Currency Amounts.
 
The calculation of the U.S. dollar equivalent amount for any amount denominated in a foreign currency shall be the noon buying rate in the City of New York as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date on which such determination is required to be made or, if such day is not a day on which such rate is published, the rate most recently published prior to such day.
 
Section 11.08        
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders.
 
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
 
Section 11.09        
Governing Law.
 
THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES AND THE GUARANTEES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
Section 11.10        
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
 
This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
Section 11.11        
Successors.
 
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
 
Section 11.12        
Severability.
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 11.13        
Counterpart Originals.
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
Section 11.14        
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc.
 
The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Indenture and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
ARTICLE 12.
SINKING FUNDS
 
Section 12.01        
Applicability of Article.
 
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of the Notes of a Series, except as otherwise permitted or required by any form of Notes of such Series issued pursuant to this Indenture.
 
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of the Notes of any Series is herein referred to as a "" and any other amount provided for by the terms of Notes of such Series is herein referred to as an "."  If provided for by the terms of Notes of any Series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.02. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Notes of any Series as provided for by the terms of the Notes of such Series.
mandatory sinking fund payment
optional sinking fund payment
 
Section 12.02        
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Notes.
 
The Company may, in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Notes of any Series to be made pursuant to the terms of such Notes (1) deliver outstanding Notes of such Series to which such sinking fund payment is applicable (other than any of such Notes previously called for mandatory sinking fund redemption) and (2) apply as credit Notes of such Series to which such sinking fund payment is applicable and which have been repurchased by the Company or redeemed either
at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Series of Notes (except pursuant to any mandatory sinking fund) or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments or other optional redemptions pursuant to the terms of such Notes, that such Notes have not been previously so credited. Such Notes shall be received by the Trustee, together with an Officers' Certificate with respect thereto, not later than 15 days prior to the date on which the Trustee begins the process of selecting Notes for redemption, and shall be credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the price specified in such Notes for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly. If as a result of the delivery or credit of Notes in lieu of cash payments pursuant to this Section 12.02, the principal amount of Notes of such Series to be redeemed in order to exhaust the aforesaid cash payment shall be less than $100,000, the Trustee need not call Notes of such Series for redemption, except upon receipt of a Company Order that such action be taken, and such cash payment shall be held by the Trustee or a Paying Agent and applied to the next succeeding sinking fund payment, , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall from time to time upon receipt of a Company Order pay over and deliver to the Company any cash payment so being held by the Trustee or such Paying Agent upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of Notes of that Series purchased by the Company having an unpaid principal amount equal to the cash payment required to be released to the Company.
provided
provided
however
 
Section 12.03        
Redemption of Notes for Sinking Fund.
 
Not less than 45 days (unless otherwise indicated in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate in respect of a particular Series of Notes) prior to each sinking fund payment date for any Series of Notes, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment for that Series pursuant to the terms of that Series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting of Notes of that Series pursuant to Section 12.02, and the optional amount, if any, to be added in cash to the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment, and the Company shall thereupon be obligated to pay the amount therein specified. Not less than 30 days (unless otherwise indicated in the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture in respect of a particular Series of Notes) before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.02 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 3.03. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Notes shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06.
 
[Signatures on following page]
SIGNATURES
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
BALL CORPORATION
 
And
 
GUARANTORS
Parties Hereto
 
 
$450,000,000
 
6 5/8% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2018
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
Dated as of March 27, 2006
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
 
Trustee
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE*
 
 
N.A. means not applicable.
*This Cross-Reference Table is not part of this Supplemental Indenture.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of March 27, 2006 by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the ""), the Guarantors (as defined below) and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
 
The Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture, dated as of March 27, 2006 (the "") providing for the issuance from time to time of one or more series of the Company's securities.
Base Indenture
 
The Company and the Guarantors desire and have requested the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture to join with them in the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture in order to supplement the Base Indenture as, and to the extent set forth herein to provide for the issuance and the terms of the Notes (as defined below).
 
Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of any holders of the Company's Securities, may amend or waive certain terms and covenants in the Base Indenture as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 2.2 thereof.
 
The execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by a board resolution of the Company and each of the Guarantors.
 
All conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
 
The Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined herein) of the 6.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (the ""):
Notes
 
ARTICLE 1.
DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
           Definitions.
Section 1.01
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, Indebtedness, including Disqualified Stock, of any other Person existing at the time such other Person is merged with or into, becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of such specified Person or is otherwise assumed by such specified Person in connection with an acquisition of assets from such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, such other Person merging with or into, or becoming a Restricted Subsidiary of, such specified Person or the acquisition of assets from such person.
Acquired Debt
 
"" means the acquisition by the Company of Alcan Bottles pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement entered into on February 24, 2006 and the acquisition by the Company of 100% of the capital stock of U.S. Can Corporation pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into on February 14, 2006.
Acquisitions
 
"" means:
Additional Assets
 
(1)           any property or assets, other than Capital Stock, Indebtedness or rights to receive payments over a period greater than 180 days, that are usable by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in a Permitted Business; or
(2)           the Capital Stock of a Person that is at the time, or becomes, a Restricted Subsidiary as a result of the acquisition of such Capital Stock by the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary.
 
means any Notes (other than the Initial Notes) issued under this Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Sections 2.14 and 4.09 hereof, as part of the same series as the Initial Notes.
"Additional Notes"
 
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; , that beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Voting Stock of a Person will be deemed to be in control. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings.
Affiliate
provided
 
"" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar.
Agent
 
"" means, with respect to any Note on any redemption date, the greater of:
Applicable Premium
 
1.0% of the principal amount of the Note; or
(1)
                                 
 
the excess of:
(2)
                                 
 
the present value at such redemption date of (i) the redemption price of the Note at March 15, 2011, (such redemption price being set forth in the table appearing under Section 3.07 hereof) plus (ii) all required interest payments due on the Note through March 15, 2011, (excluding accrued but unpaid interest to the redemption date), computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate as of such redemption date plus 50 basis points; over
(a)
                                 
 
the principal amount of the Note, if greater.
(b)
                                
 
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
 
"" means:
Asset Sale
 
(1)           the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of any assets or rights other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices; , that the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole will be governed by the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture described under Section 4.15 and/or the provisions described under Section 5.01 hereof and not by the provisions of Section 4.10 hereof; and
provided
 
(2)           the issuance or sale of Equity Interests in any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries, and in the case of either clause (1) or (2), whether in a single transaction or series of related transactions (a) that have a fair market value in excess of $20 million or (b) for Net Proceeds in excess of $20 million.
Notwithstanding the preceding, none of the following items will be deemed to be an Asset Sale:
 
(1)           a transfer of assets or rights by the Company to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company or by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company;
 
(2)           an issuance or sale of Equity Interests by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary of the Company;
 
(3)           the sale or lease of equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other current assets in the ordinary course of business;
 
(4)           the sale or other disposition of cash or Cash Equivalents;
 
(5)           a Restricted Payment that is not prohibited by Section 4.07 or a Permitted Investment;
 
(6)           sales, conveyances or other transfers of receivables and related assets to a Securitization Entity or to another Person as contemplated by the definition of "Qualified Securitization Transaction" in a Qualified Securitization Transaction;
 
(7)           the sale or disposition of obsolete, uneconomical, worn out or surplus property or equipment;
 
(8)           the surrender or waiver of contract rights or settlement, release or surrender of a contract, tort or other litigation claim in the ordinary course of business;
 
(9)           the granting of Liens not prohibited by this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(10)         any exchange of like property pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for use in a Permitted Business;
 
(11)         the lease, assignment or sublease of any real or personal property in the ordinary course of business; and
 
(12)         any sale of Equity Interests in, or Indebtedness or other securities of, an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
 
"" in respect of a sale and leaseback transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such sale and leaseback transaction including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value will be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Attributable Debt
 
means Ball Asia Pacific Limited, a Hong Kong company, and its affiliates and joint ventures.
"Ball Asia Pacific"
 
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
" means has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Supplemental Indenture, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
"
Base
Indenture
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person," as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, such "person" will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
 
"" means:
Board of Directors
 
(1)           with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on behalf of such board;
 
(2)           with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership;
 
(3)           with respect to a limited liability company, the managing member or members or any controlling committee of managing members or managers thereof; and
 
(4)           with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
 
"" means any day other than a Legal Holiday.
Business Day
 
"" means, at the time any determination thereof is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP and the Stated Maturity thereof will be the date of the last payment of rent or any other amount due under such lease prior to the first date upon which such lease may be prepaid by the lessee without payment of a penalty.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
"" means:
Capital Stock
 
(1)           in the case of a corporation, corporate stock;
 
(2)           in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents, however designated, of corporate stock;
 
(3)           in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests, whether general or limited; and
 
(4)           any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person, but excluding from all of the foregoing any debt securities convertible into Capital Stock, whether or not such debt securities include any right of participation with Capital Stock.
 
"" means:
Cash Equivalents
 
 
(1)           United States dollars;
 
(2)           securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States government or any agency or instrumentality of the United States government having maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition;
 
(3)           certificates of deposit and eurodollar time deposits with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition, bankers' acceptances with maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition and overnight bank deposits, in each case, with any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500 million and a Thomson Bank Watch Rating of "B" or better;
 
(4)           repurchase obligations with a term of not more than seven days for underlying securities of the types described in clauses (2) and (3) above entered into with any financial institution meeting the qualifications specified in clause (3) above;
 
(5)           commercial paper having the highest rating obtainable from Moody's, or one of the two highest ratings from S&P and in each case maturing within six months after the date of acquisition;
 
(6)           money market funds at least 95% of the assets of which constitute Cash Equivalents of the kinds described in clauses (1) through (5) of this definition; and
 
(7)           in the case of any Foreign Subsidiary;
 
direct obligations of the sovereign nation, or any agency thereof, in which such Foreign Subsidiary is organized and is conducting business or in obligations fully and unconditionally guaranteed by such sovereign nation, or any agency thereof;
(a)
                                 
 
investments of the type and maturity described in clauses (1) through (6) above of foreign obligors, which investments or obligors have ratings described in such clauses or equivalent ratings from comparable foreign rating agencies; or
(b)
                                
 
investments of the type and maturity described in clauses (1) through (6) above of foreign obligors which investments or obligors are not rated as provided in such clauses or in clause (b) above but which are, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, comparable in investment quality to such investments and obligors, or the direct or indirect parent of such obligors.
(c)
                                 
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
 
(1)           the sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, other than by way of merger or consolidation, in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person," as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act;
 
(2)           the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
(3)           the consummation of any transaction, including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation, the result of which is that any "person," as defined above, becomes the ultimate Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(4)           the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors; or
 
(5)           the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person or sells, assigns, conveys, transfers, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction is converted into or exchanged for Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person constituting a majority of the outstanding shares of such Voting Stock of such surviving or transferee Person (immediately after giving effect to such issuance).
 
 "" means Ball Corporation, and any and all successors thereto.
Company
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period :
Consolidated Cash Flow
plus
 
(1)           an amount equal to any extraordinary loss plus any net loss realized by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale, to the extent such losses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
 
(2)           provision for taxes based on income or profits of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
 
(3)           consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued and whether or not capitalized, including, without limitation, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, imputed interest with respect to Attributable Debt, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings and receivables financings, and net payments, if any, pursuant to Hedging Obligations, to the extent that any such expense was deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
plus
 
(4)           depreciation, amortization, including amortization of goodwill and other intangibles but excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period, and other non-cash expenses, excluding any such non-cash expense to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period, of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the extent that such depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses were deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income;
minus
 
(5)           non-cash items increasing such Consolidated Net Income for such period, other than items that were accrued in the ordinary course of business,
in each case, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person as of any date, the sum, without duplication, of:
Consolidated Indebtedness
 
the total amount of Indebtedness of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(1)
                                 
plus
 
the total amount of Indebtedness of any other Person, to the extent that such Indebtedness has been Guaranteed by, or is secured by a Lien on the assets of, the referent Person or one or more of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(2)
                                 
plus
 
the aggregate liquidation value of all Disqualified Stock of such Person and all preferred stock of Restricted Subsidiaries of such Person,
(3)
                                 
 
in each case, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP; , that:
Consolidated Net Income
provided
 
(1)           the Net Income (but not loss) of any Person (other than the Company) that is not a Restricted Subsidiary or that is accounted for by the equity method of accounting will be included only to the extent of the amount of dividends or distributions paid in cash to the specified Person or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Person;
 
(2)           the Net Income of any Restricted Subsidiary will be excluded to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by that Restricted Subsidiary of that Net Income is not at the date of determination permitted without any prior governmental approval, that has not been obtained or, directly or indirectly, by operation of the terms of its charter or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, order, statute, rule or governmental regulation applicable to that Restricted Subsidiary or its stockholders;
 
(3)           the Net Income of any Person acquired in a pooling of interests transaction for any period prior to the date of such acquisition will be excluded; and
 
(4)           the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles will be excluded.
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
Continuing Directors
 
(1)           was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Supplemental Indenture; or
 
(2)           was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such nomination or election.
 
"" will be at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 12.02 hereof or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Company.
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee
"" means one or more debt facilities, including, without limitation, the Existing Credit Facilities, or commercial paper facilities, in each case with banks, investment funds or other lenders providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financings, including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables or letters of credit, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time.
Credit Facilities
 
"" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
 
"" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.06 hereof, substantially in the form of hereto except that such Note will not bear the Global Note Legend.
Definitive Note
Exhibit A
 
"" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.03 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Supplemental Indenture.
Depositary
 
"" means the fair market value of noncash consideration received by the Company or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with an Asset Sale that is so designated as Designated Noncash Consideration pursuant to an Officers' Certificate, setting forth the basis of such valuation, executed by the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of the Company, less the amount of cash or Cash Equivalents received in connection with a sale of such Designated Noncash Consideration.
Designated Noncash Consideration
 
"" means any Capital Stock that, by its terms, or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable, in each case at the option of the holder of the security, or upon the happening of any event, matures, excluding any maturity as the result of the optional redemption thereof, or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date on which the Notes mature, except to the extent that such Capital Stock is solely redeemable with, or solely exchangeable for, any Equity Interests of the Company that are not Disqualified Stock; , , that only the portion of the Capital Stock or other security which so matures, is mandatorily redeemable or is so redeemable at the option of the holder prior to such date will be deemed to be Disqualified Stock; that if such Capital Stock or other security is issued to any employee or to any plan for the benefit of employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries or by any such plan to such employees, such Capital Stock or other security will not constitute Disqualified Stock solely because it may be required to be repurchased by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in order to satisfy applicable statutory or regulatory obligations or as a result of such employee's termination, death or disability. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders of the Capital Stock have the right to require the Company to repurchase such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a change of control or an asset sale will not constitute Disqualified Stock if the terms of such Capital Stock provide that the Company may not repurchase or redeem any such Capital Stock pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption complies with Section 4.07 hereof.
Disqualified Stock
provided
however
provided
further
"" means a Subsidiary that is formed under the laws of the United States or any state of the United States or the District of Columbia or that guarantees or otherwise provides direct credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or its Domestic Subsidiaries.
Domestic Subsidiary
 
"" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock, but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock.
Equity Interests
 
"" means:
Equity Offering
 
(1)           an offering or sale of Capital Stock, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company; or
 
(2)           the contribution of cash to the Company as an equity capital contribution, other than in respect of Disqualified Stock.
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means each of the following Subsidiaries of the Company: Ball Corporation, a Nevada corporation; Ball Glass Containers, Inc., a Delaware corporation; Ball Metal Container Corporation, an Indiana corporation; Heekin Can, Inc., a Colorado corporation; Ball Asia Services Limited, a Delaware corporation; Ball Glass Container Corporation, a Delaware corporation; Ball Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation and Ball Technology Services Corporation, a California corporation, together with such other Subsidiaries of the Company as may from time to time be designated by the Company as "Excluded Subsidiaries" pursuant to an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee; , that each such Subsidiary will be an Excluded Subsidiary only if and only for so long as:
Excluded Subsidiary
provided
 
(1)           the aggregate of the net sales of all such Subsidiaries will not exceed $10 million in any twelve-month period; and
 
(2)           the aggregate of the assets, including capitalization, of all such Subsidiaries as of any date will not exceed $10 million.
 
"" means that certain credit agreement, dated October 13, 2005, as amended.
Existing Credit Facilities
 
"" means Indebtedness of the Company, the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries and U.S. Can Corporation and its Subsidiaries, other than Indebtedness under Credit Facilities, in existence on the date of this Supplemental Indenture.
Existing Indebtedness
 
"" means the Existing Senior Notes.
Existing Notes
 
"" means up to $550 million of the Company's 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2012.
Existing Senior Notes
 
"" means with respect to any specified Person for any period, the ratio of the Consolidated Cash Flow of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period to the Fixed Charges of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period. In the event that the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries incurs, assumes, Guarantees, repays, repurchases or redeems any Indebtedness (other than ordinary working capital borrowings) or issues, repurchases or redeems preferred stock subsequent to the commencement of the period for which the Fixed Charge
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
Coverage Ratio is being calculated and on or prior to the date on which the event for which the calculation of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is made (the ""), then the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio will be calculated giving pro forma effect to such incurrence, assumption, Guarantee, repayment, repurchase or redemption of Indebtedness, or such issuance, repurchase or redemption of preferred stock, and the use of the proceeds therefrom as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter reference period.
Calculation Date
 
In addition, for purposes of calculating the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:
 
(1)           acquisitions that have been made by the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, including through mergers or consolidations and including any related financing transactions, during the four-quarter reference period or subsequent to such reference period and on or prior to the Calculation Date will be deemed to have occurred on the first day of the four-quarter reference period and Consolidated Cash Flow for such reference period will be calculated without giving effect to clause (3) of the proviso set forth in the definition of Consolidated Net Income;
 
(2)           the Consolidated Cash Flow attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, will be excluded; and
 
(3)           the Fixed Charges attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, will be excluded, but only to the extent that the obligations giving rise to such Fixed Charges will not be obligations of the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries following the Calculation Date.
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person for any period, the sum, without duplication, of:
Fixed Charges
 
(1)           the consolidated interest expense of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, whether paid or accrued, including, without limitation, to the extent properly characterized as interest expense in accordance with GAAP, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, non-cash interest payments, the interest component of any deferred payment obligations, the interest component of all payments associated with Capital Lease Obligations, imputed interest with respect to Attributable Debt, commissions, discounts and other fees and charges incurred in respect of letter of credit or bankers' acceptance financings, and net payments, if any, pursuant to Hedging Obligations;
 
(2)           the consolidated interest of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries that was capitalized during such period;
 
(3)           any interest expense on Indebtedness of another Person that is Guaranteed by such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries or secured by a Lien on assets of such Person or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries, whether or not such Guarantee or Lien is called upon; and
 
(4)           all dividend payments, whether or not in cash, on any series of preferred stock of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than dividends on Equity Interests payable solely in Equity Interests of the Company, other than Disqualified Stock, or to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company.
"" means Subsidiaries of the Company that are not Domestic Subsidiaries.
Foreign Subsidiaries
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable as of the date of this Supplemental Indenture.
GAAP
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(f), which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture.
Global Note Legend
 
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Global Notes, in the form of hereto issued in accordance with Section 2.01 hereof.
Global Notes
Exhibit A
 
"" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America, and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit.
Government Securities
 
"" means a guarantee, other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Indebtedness.
Guarantee
 
"" means:
Guarantors
 
(1)           each of Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Beverage Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Metal Food Container Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Metal Packaging Sales Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Packaging Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Plastic Container Corp., a Colorado corporation, Ball Technologies Holdings Corp., a Colorado corporation, Latas de Aluminio Ball, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Ball Pan-European Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, BG Holdings I, Inc., a Delaware corporation, BG Holdings II, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Efratom Holding, Inc., a Colorado corporation, Metal Packaging International, Inc., a Colorado corporation, Ball Aerosol and Specialty Container Corp., a Delaware corporation, Ball Delaware Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Ball Metal Food Container, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and any other Domestic Subsidiary of the Company as of the date of this Supplemental Indenture (other than Ball Capital Corp., Ball Asia Pacific, any other Unrestricted Subsidiary and the Excluded Subsidiaries); and
 
(2)           any other Subsidiary of the Company that executes a supplemental indenture in the form of and becomes a Guarantor in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture;
Exhibit C
 
and their respective successors and assigns.
 
"" means, with respect to any Hedging Obligations, any counterparty thereto, at the time such Hedging Obligations are initially incurred, that is a holder, or an Affiliate thereof, of Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities. For clarification, such counterparty (and its successors and assigns) will be deemed a Hedging Counterparty even if it or its Affiliate ceases to be a holder of Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities for any reason.
Hedging Counterparty
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the net payment Obligations of such Person under:
Hedging Obligations
 
(1)           interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements; and
 
(2)           other agreements or arrangements in respect of such Person's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, currency exchange rates or interest rates and, in each case, not entered into for speculative purposes.
 
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered.
Holder
 
"" means, to directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable, contingently or otherwise. The term "Incurrence" has a correlative meaning. For the avoidance of doubt the Incurrence of Indebtedness by a Subsidiary of a Person will not be deemed to be an indirect Incurrence of Indebtedness by the referent Person.
Incur
 
 "" means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent:
Indebtedness
 
(1)           in respect of borrowed money;
 
(2)           evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit, or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof;
 
(3)           in respect of banker's acceptances;
 
(4)           representing Capital Lease Obligations;
 
(5)           representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable; or
 
(6)           representing any Hedging Obligations,
 
if and to the extent any of the preceding items, other than letters of credit and Hedging Obligations, would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of the specified Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the term "Indebtedness" includes all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person, and, to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by the specified Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person or any liability of any person, whether or not contingent and whether or not it appears on the balance sheet of such Person.
 
The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date will be:
 
(1)           the accreted value of the Indebtedness, in the case of any Indebtedness that does not require the current payment of interest;
 
(2)           the principal amount of the Indebtedness in the case of any other Indebtedness; and
(3)           in respect of Indebtedness of another Person secured by a Lien on the assets of the specified Person, the lesser of:
 
(a)           the fair market value of such assets at the date of determination; and
 
(b)           the amount of the Indebtedness of the other Person.
 
"" means the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, governing the Notes, in each case, as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time.
Indenture
 
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
 
means the first $450 million  aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture on the date hereof.
"Initial Notes"
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, all investments by such Person in other Persons, including Affiliates, in the form of loans, including Guarantees of Indebtedness or other Obligations, advances or capital contributions, excluding commission, travel, entertainment, moving and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business, prepaid expenses and accounts receivable, purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. If the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, will be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the fair market value of the Equity Interests of such Restricted Subsidiary that were not sold or disposed of in an amount determined as provided in the final paragraph of Section 4.07 hereof.
Investments
 
"" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, the city in which the principal office of the Trustee is located or at a place of payment are authorized by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest will accrue on such payment for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person as of any date, the ratio of (a) the Consolidated Indebtedness of the Company as of such date to (b) the Consolidated Cash Flow of the Company for the four most recent full fiscal quarters ending immediately prior to such date for which internal financial statements are available, determined as provided below.
Leverage Ratio
 
For purposes of calculating the Leverage Ratio:
 
acquisitions that have been made by the specified Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, including through mergers or consolidations and including any related financing transactions, during the four-quarter reference period or subsequent to such reference period and on or prior to the Calculation Date will be deemed to have occurred on the first day of the four-quarter reference period and Consolidated Cash Flow for such reference period will be calculated without giving effect to clause (3) of the proviso set forth in the definition of Consolidated Net Income; and
(1)
                                 
the Consolidated Cash Flow attributable to discontinued operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and operations or businesses disposed of prior to the Calculation Date, will be excluded.
(2)
                                 
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or any lease in the nature thereof; that in no event will an operating lease be deemed to constitute a Lien.
Lien
provided
 
"" means a reimbursement obligation to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary in connection with a drawing on a letter of credit, revolving loan commitment, cash collateral account or other such credit enhancement issued to support Indebtedness of a Securitization Entity under a facility for the financing of trade receivables; , that the available amount of any such form of credit enhancement at any time will not exceed 10% of the principal amount of such Indebtedness at such time.
Limited Originator Recourse
provided
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the net income or loss of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of preferred stock dividends, excluding, however:
Net Income
 
(1)           any gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such gain or loss, realized in connection with the disposition of any securities by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or the extinguishment of any Indebtedness of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(2)           any extraordinary gain or loss, together with any related provision for taxes on such extraordinary gain or loss; and
 
(3)           any one-time noncash charges (including legal, accounting and debt issuance costs) resulting from the Transactions.
 
"" means the aggregate cash proceeds or Cash Equivalents received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale, including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Sale, net of all costs relating to such Asset Sale, including, without limitation, legal, accounting, investment banking and brokers fees, and sales and underwriting commissions, and any relocation expenses incurred as a result thereof, taxes paid or payable as a result thereof (after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements), and amounts required to be applied to the repayment of Indebtedness, other than Indebtedness under a Credit Facility secured by a Lien on the asset or assets that were the subject of such Asset Sale and any reserve for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets established in accordance with GAAP.
Net Proceeds
 
" means Indebtedness:
"Non-Recourse Debt
 
(1)           as to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than a Securitization Entity, if applicable, (a) provides credit support of any kind, including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Indebtedness, (b) is directly or indirectly liable as a guarantor or otherwise or (c) constitutes the lender;
 
(2)           no default with respect to which, including any rights that the holders of the Indebtedness may have to take enforcement action against an Unrestricted Subsidiary, would
permit upon notice, lapse of time or both any holder of any other Indebtedness, other than the Notes, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to declare a default on such other Indebtedness or cause the payment of the Indebtedness to be accelerated or payable prior to its stated maturity; and
 
(3)           as to which the lenders have been notified in writing that they will not have any recourse to the stock or assets of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than a Securitization Entity, if applicable.
 
"" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Person
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Supplemental Indenture. The Initial Notes and the Additional Notes will be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Supplemental Indenture, and unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the Notes will include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes.
Notes
 
"" means any principal, premium, if any, interest, including interest accruing on or after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization relating to the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries whether or not a claim for post-filing interest is allowed in such proceeding, penalties, fees, charges, expenses, indemnifications, reimbursement obligations, damages, including liquidated damages, guarantees and other liabilities or amounts payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness or in respect thereof.
Obligations
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person.
Officer
 
"" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be a vice-president, the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 hereof.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means an opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee, that meets the requirements of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company or the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, a Person who has an account with the Depositary.
Participant
 
"" means the lines of business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on the date of this Supplemental Indenture and businesses substantially similar, related or incidental thereto or reasonable extensions thereof.
Permitted Business
 
"" means:
Permitted Investments
 
(1)           any Investment in the Company or in a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company;
 
(2)           any Investment in Cash Equivalents;
 
(3)           any Investment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in a Person engaged in a Permitted Business, if as a result of such Investment:
such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; or
(a)
                                 
 
such Person is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company;
(b)
                                
 
(4)           any Investment made as a result of the receipt of non-cash consideration from an Asset Sale that was made pursuant to and in compliance with Section 4.10 hereof (including, without limitation, any sale or other disposition of all or a portion of the business constituting the aerospace and technologies segment of the Company) or any other disposition of assets not constituting an Asset Sale;
 
(5)           any Investment made in exchange for the issuance of Equity Interests, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company;
 
(6)           other Investments in any Person having an aggregate fair market value, measured on the date each such Investment was made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value, when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (6) since the date of this Supplemental Indenture not to exceed 2.5% of Total Assets;
 
(7)           Hedging Obligations;
 
(8)           any Investment by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in a Securitization Entity or any Investment by a Securitization Entity in any other Person in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; , that any Investment in a Securitization Entity is in the form of a Purchase Money Note or an Equity Interest;
provided
 
(9)           any Investment existing on the date of this Supplemental Indenture and any amendment, modification, restatement, supplement, extension, renewal, refunding, replacement, or refinancing, in whole or in part, thereof;
 
(10)         any Investments received in satisfaction of judgments, settlements of debt or compromises of obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, including pursuant to any plan of reorganization or similar arrangement upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of any trade creditor or customer;
 
(11)         any Investment in Ball Asia Pacific, the proceeds of which are used to permanently repay Indebtedness of Ball Asia Pacific in an amount up to the amount that was outstanding on August 10, 1998, plusany interest, prepayment penalty and reasonable costs associated with such repayment;
 
(12)         Investments in Permitted Joint Ventures of up to $150 million outstanding at any time;
 
(13)         receivables owing to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company if created or acquired in the ordinary course of business and payable or dischargeable in accordance with customary trade terms; that such trade terms may include such concessionary trade terms as the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary deems reasonable under the circumstances;
provided
(14)         Investments deemed to have been made as a result of the acquisition of a Person that at the time of such acquisition held instruments constituting Investments that were not acquired in contemplation of the acquisition of such Person;
 
(15)         Investments in prepaid expenses and lease, utility and workers' compensation performance and other similar deposits;
 
(16)         commission, payroll, travel and similar advances to employees in the ordinary course of business;
 
(17)         Investments consisting of intercompany indebtedness not prohibited under this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(18)         Investments consisting of the licensing or contribution of intellectual property pursuant to joint marketing arrangements with other Persons;
 
(19)         Investments consisting of purchases and acquisitions of inventory, supplies, materials and equipment or purchases of contract rights or licenses or leases of intellectual property, in each case in the ordinary course of business; and
 
(20)         other Investments in any Person other than an Affiliate of the Company having an aggregate fair market value (measured on the date each such Investment was made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value), when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (20) that are at the time outstanding not to exceed $150 million.
 
"" means an entity characterized as a joint venture, however structured, engaged in a Permitted Business and in which the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (a) owns at least 40% of the ownership interest or (b) has a right to receive at least 40% of the profits or distributions; that such joint venture is not a Subsidiary of the Company.
Permitted Joint Venture
provided
 
"" means:
Permitted Liens
 
(1)           Liens on assets, including, without limitation, the capital stock of a Subsidiary, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to secure Indebtedness under any Credit Facilities that is permitted by the terms of this Supplemental Indenture to be incurred, whether pursuant to the terms of the first or second paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof or otherwise;
 
(2)           Liens on the assets, including, but not limited to, the capital stock of a Subsidiary, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to secure Indebtedness in respect of any Hedging Obligations to any Hedging Counterparty, but only to the extent that such Hedging Obligations relate to Indebtedness that is permitted by the terms of this Supplemental Indenture to be incurred;
 
(3)           Liens on property or assets of a Person existing at the time such Person is acquired by, or merged into or consolidated with, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company; , that such Liens were not put in place in contemplation thereof and do not extend to any property or assets other than those of the Person acquired by, or merged into or consolidated with, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company;
provided
(4)           Liens on property or assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, , that such Liens were not put in place in contemplation thereof and only extend to the property or assets so acquired;
provided
 
(5)           Liens existing on the date of this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(6)           Liens to secure any Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness incurred to refinance any Indebtedness secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (1) through (5), as the case may be, at the time the original Lien became a Permitted Lien;
 
(7)           Liens in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company;
 
(8)           Liens to secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (xvi) of the definition of "Permitted Debt;"
 
(9)           Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with respect to obligations that do not exceed $50 million in the aggregate at any one time outstanding and that (a) are not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit, other than trade credit in the ordinary course of business, and (b) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of business by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary;
 
(10)         Liens incurred or deposits made to secure the performance of statutory or regulatory obligations, bankers' acceptances, surety or appeal bonds, performance bonds, deposits to secure the performance of tenders, bids, trade contracts, government contracts, import duties, payment of rent, performance, letters of credit and return-of-money bonds, leases or licenses or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business, including, without limitation, landlord Liens on leased properties;
 
(11)         Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or claims that are not yet delinquent, that are not subject to penalties or interest for non-payment or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; , that any reserve or other appropriate provision as will be required to conform with GAAP will have been made therefor;
provided
 
(12)         Liens to secure Indebtedness, including Capital Lease Obligations, permitted by clause (iv) of the definition of "Permitted Debt;"
 
(13)         carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', materialmen's, repairmen's, suppliers' or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and deposits made to obtain the release of such liens and with respect of obligations not overdue for a period in excess of 60 days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; , that any reserve or other appropriate provision as will be required to conform with GAAP will have been made therefor;
provided
 
(14)         easements, rights-of-way, zoning ordinances and similar charges, restrictions, exceptions or other irregularities, reservations of, or rights of others for: licenses, sewers, electric lines, telegraph and telephone lines, and other similar encumbrances or title defects incurred, or leases or subleases granted to others, in the ordinary course of business, which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or do not materially interfere with
the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole;
 
(15)         Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
 
(16)         leases or subleases granted to third Persons not materially interfering with the ordinary course of business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole;
 
(17)         Liens, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder, incurred or pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other types of social security;
 
(18)         deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure liability to insurance carriers;
 
(19)         Liens for purchase money obligations, including refinancings thereof permitted under Section 4.09 hereof, , that (a) the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof and (b) any such Lien encumbers only the asset so purchased;
provided
 
(20)         any attachment or judgment Lien not constituting an Event of Default under clause (i) of Section 6.01 hereof and Liens arising from the rendering of a judgment that is not a final judgment or order against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is then proceeding with an appeal or other proceeding for review or in connection with surety or appeal bonds in connection with such attachment or judgment;
 
(21)         any interest or title of a lessor or sublessor under any operating lease or capital lease;
 
(22)         Liens on assets transferred to a Securitization Entity or on assets of a Securitization Entity, in either case incurred in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction;
 
(23)         Liens under licensing agreements for use of intellectual property entered into in the ordinary course of business;
 
(24)         Liens arising from Uniform Commercial Code financing statement filings regarding operating leases entered into by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business; and
 
(25)         Rights of set-off of banks and other Persons.
 
"" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than intercompany Indebtedness; , that:
Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness
provided
(1)           the principal amount, or accreted value, if applicable, of such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount, or accreted value, if applicable, of the Indebtedness extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded, plus all accrued interest and premiums on the Indebtedness and the amount of all fees, expenses, prepayment penalties and premiums incurred in connection therewith;
 
(2)           such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded;
 
(3)           if the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is subordinated in right of payment to the Notes, such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and is subordinated in right of payment to, the Notes on terms at least as favorable to the holders of Notes as those contained in the documentation governing the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; and
 
(4)           such Indebtedness is incurred either by the Company or by the Restricted Subsidiary who is the obligor on the Indebtedness being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded.
 
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
 
"" means a promissory note of a Securitization Entity evidencing a line of credit, which may be irrevocable, from the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction, which note will be repaid from cash available to the Securitization Entity, other than amounts required to be established as reserves pursuant to agreements, amounts paid to investors in respect of interest, principal and other amounts owing to such investors and amounts paid in connection with the purchase of newly generated receivables.
Purchase Money Note
 
"" means any transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (a) a Securitization Entity, in the case of a transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and (b) any other Person, in case of a transfer by a Securitization Entity, or may grant a security interest in, any receivables, whether now existing or arising or acquired in the future, of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto including, without limitation, all collateral securing such receivables, all contracts and contract rights and all Guarantees or other obligations in respect of such receivables, proceeds of such receivables and other assets, including contract rights, which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving receivables, collectively, "transferred assets"; , that, in the case of any such transfer by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, the transferor receives cash or Purchase Money Notes in an amount which, when aggregated with the cash and Purchase Money Notes received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries upon all other such transfers of transferred assets during the 90 days preceding such transfer, is at least equal to 75% of the aggregate face amount of all receivables so transferred during such day and the 90 preceding days.
Qualified Securitization Transaction
provided
 
 "" when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant
Responsible Officer
secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time will be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who will have direct responsibility for the administration of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
"" means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment.
Restricted Investment
 
"" of a Person means any Subsidiary of the referent Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary; , that, on the date of this Supplemental Indenture, all Subsidiaries of the Company other than Ball Asia Pacific, Ball Capital Corp. and the Excluded Subsidiaries will be Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company.
Restricted Subsidiary
provided
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" means a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Company, or another Person in which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company makes an Investment and to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company transfers receivables and related assets, that engages in no activities other than in connection with the financing of receivables and that is designated by the Board of the Directors of the Company, as provided below, as a Securitization Entity (a) no portion of the Indebtedness or any other Obligations, contingent or otherwise, of which (1) is guaranteed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, other than the Securitization Entity, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (2) is recourse to or obligates the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, other than the Securitization Entity, in any way other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse or (3) subjects any property or asset of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, other than the Securitization Entity, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction thereof, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings or Limited Originator Recourse, (b) with which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any material contract, agreement, arrangement or understanding other than on terms no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company, other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business in connection with servicing receivables of such entity and (c) to which neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company has any obligation to maintain or preserve such entity's financial condition or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results. Any such designation by the Board of Directors of the Company will be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions.
Securitization Entity
 
"" means any Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Supplemental Indenture.
Significant Subsidiary
 
"" means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company that are reasonably customary in receivables securitization transactions.
Standard Securitization Undertakings
 
"" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the
Stated Maturity
original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person:
Subsidiary
 
(1)           any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled, without regard to the occurrence of any contingency, to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person; and
 
(2)           any partnership (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or an entity described in clause (1) and related to such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or one or more entities described in clause (1) and related to such Person, or any combination thereof.
 
from time to time in accordance with the Base Indenture and the terms hereof.
"" means this First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, governing the Notes, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified
Supplemental Indenture
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date on which this Supplemental Indenture is qualified under the TIA.
TIA
 
"" means the total assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP, as shown on the most recently available consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
Total Assets
 
"" means the Acquisitions, the offering of the Initial Notes, the borrowings under the Existing Credit Facilities on the date of this Supplemental Indenture, tender offers by United States Can Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Can Corporation and the payment of related fees and expenses.
Transactions
 
"" means, as of any redemption date, the yield to maturity as of such redemption date of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) that has become publicly available at least two business days prior to the redemption date (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data)) most nearly equal to the period from the redemption date to March 15, 2011; , that if the period from the redemption date to March 15, 2011, is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used.
Treasury Rate
provided, however
 
"" means (a) each of Ball Asia Pacific, Ball Capital Corp., and the Excluded Subsidiaries and (b) any Subsidiary of the Company that is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a board resolution, but only to the extent that such Subsidiary:
Unrestricted Subsidiary
 
(1)           has no Indebtedness other than Non-Recourse Debt;
 
(2)           is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company unless the terms of any such agreement,
contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of the Company;
 
(3)           is a Person with respect to which neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation (a) to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or (b) to maintain or preserve such Person's net worth; and
 
(4)           has not guaranteed or otherwise directly or indirectly provided credit support for any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; , that the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may guarantee the performance of Unrestricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business except for guarantees of Obligations in respect of borrowed money.
provided, however
 
Any designation of a Subsidiary of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary will be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the board resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions and was permitted by Section 4.07 hereof. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the preceding requirements as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it will thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Supplemental Indenture and any Indebtedness of such Subsidiary will be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as of such date and, if such Indebtedness is not permitted to be incurred as of such date under Section 4.09 hereof, the Company will be in default of such Section 4.09. The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; , that such designation will be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation will only be permitted if (1) such Indebtedness is permitted under Section 4.09 hereof, calculated on a pro forma basis as if such designation had occurred at the beginning of the four-quarter reference period; and (2) no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation.
provided
 
"" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
 
"" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
"" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
 
(1)           the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect of the Indebtedness, by (b) the number of years, calculated to the nearest one-twelfth, that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment; by
 
(2)           the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness.
 
"" means a Restricted Subsidiary, 100% of the outstanding Capital Stock and other Equity Interests of which are directly or indirectly owned by the Company.
Wholly-owned Subsidiary
           Other Definitions
Section 1.02
 
 
           Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
Section 1.03
 
Whenever this Supplemental Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
The following TIA terms used in this Supplemental Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"" means the Notes;
indenture securities
 
"" means a Holder of a Note;
indenture security holder
 
"" means this Supplemental Indenture;
indenture to be qualified
 
"" or "" means the Trustee; and
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
 
"" on the Notes and the Guarantees means the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, and any successor obligor upon the Notes and the Guarantees, respectively.
obligor
 
All other terms used in this Supplemental Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
           Rules of Construction.
Section 1.04
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1)           a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(2)           an accounting term not otherwise defined herein has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3)           "or" is not exclusive;
 
(4)           words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
 
(5)           provisions apply to successive events and transactions;
 
(6)           references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act will be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time;
 
(7)           "will" shall be interpreted to express a command; and
 
(8)           references to sections of the Indenture refer to sections of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
Section 1.05          
Relationship with Base Indenture.
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Base Indenture will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Supplemental Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of the Base Indenture conflicts with the express provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling.
 
The Trustee accepts the amendment of the Base Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture and agrees to execute the trust created by the Base Indenture as hereby amended, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, including the terms and provisions defining and limiting the liabilities and responsibilities of the Trustee in the performance of the trust created by the Base Indenture, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee will not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or with respect to any of the recitals or statements contained herein, all of which recitals or statements are made solely by the Company and the Guarantors, or for or with respect to (1) the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or any of the terms or provisions hereof, (2) the proper authorization hereof by the Company and the Guarantors, (3) the due execution hereof by the Company and the Guarantors or (4) the consequences (direct or indirect and whether deliberate or inadvertent) of any amendment herein provided for, and the Trustee makes no representation with respect to any such matters.
ARTICLE 2.
THE NOTES
 
           Form and Dating.
Section 2.01
 
(a)           . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form of hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes will be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof.
General
Exhibit A
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Supplemental Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Base Indenture, the provisions of the Note will govern and be controlling, and to the extent any provision of the Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling.
 
(b)           . Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon). Notes issued in definitive form will be substantially in the form of attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon). Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein and each will provide that it will represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as  required by Section 2.06 hereof.
Global Notes
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
 
           Execution and Authentication.
Section 2.02
 
One Officer will sign the Notes for the Company and the Guarantees for the Guarantors by manual or facsimile signature. If an Officer whose signature is on a Note and/or a Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time such Note and/or Guarantee is authenticated, such Note and/or Guarantee will nevertheless be valid.
 
A Note and/or a Guarantee will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. The signature will be conclusive evidence that the Note or Guarantee, as applicable, has been authenticated under this Supplemental Indenture.
 
The Trustee will, upon a written order of the Company signed by one Officer (an ""), authenticate Notes and Guarantees for original issue in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture, including any Additional Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.14 hereof.
Authentication Order
 
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes and Guarantees whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Supplemental Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
           Registrar and Paying Agent.
Section 2.03
 
The Company will maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (""). The Registrar will keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company will notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Supplemental Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee will act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Registrar
Paying Agent
 
The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
DTC
 
The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes.
 
           Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust.
Section 2.04
 
The Company will require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) will have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it will segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Trustee will serve as Paying Agent for the Notes.
 
           Holder Lists.
Section 2.05
 
The Trustee will preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and will otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company will furnish to the Trustee at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Notes and the Company will otherwise comply with TIA Section 312(a).
 
           Transfer and Exchange.
Section 2.06
 
(a)           . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
 
(1)           the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency
registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; or
 
(2)           the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee.
 
Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in (1) or (2) above, Definitive Notes will be issued in such names and in any approved denominations as the Depositary will instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.10 hereof. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.06 or Section 2.07 or 2.10 hereof, will be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and will be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.06(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 2.06(b), (c) or (g) hereof.
 
(b)           . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
 
(1)           . Beneficial interests in any Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Note. No written orders or instructions will be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.06(b)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
 
(2)           . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.06(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
 
(A)          (i)  a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii)  instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase.
 
Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee will adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.06(g) hereof.
 
(c)           .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
 
If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions
set forth in Section 2.06(b)(2) hereof, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(g) hereof, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c) will be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest requests through instructions to the Registrar from or through the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee will deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered.
 
(d)          
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests.
 
A Holder of a Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Global Notes.
 
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to the previous paragraph at a time when a Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of the Company's order, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
A Holder of Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note.
 
(e)           . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.06(e), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder will present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder will provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.06(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
 
(f)            . The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Supplemental Indenture.
Legends
 
"THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS  DEFINED IN THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE  BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY  PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE  REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED  IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE  MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR  CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND  (IV) THIS GLOBAL
NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.  UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
 
(g)           .  At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note will be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.11 hereof.  At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note will be reduced accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note will be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
 
(h)           .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
 
(1)           To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Registrar's request.
 
(2)           No service charge will be made to a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.10, 3.06, 3.09, 4.10, 4.15 and 9.05 hereof).
 
(3)           The Registrar will not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
(4)           All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes will be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Supplemental Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
(5)           The Company will not be required:
 
(A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period of 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under Section 3.02 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection;
 
(B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part; or
 
(C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date.
 
(6)           Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company will be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
(7)           The Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof.
 
(8)           All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.06 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
 
(9)           The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Supplemental Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Supplemental Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
(10)         Neither the Trustee nor any Agent shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
 
Section 2.07          
Replacement Notes.
 
If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, the Company will issue and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, will authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustee's requirements are met.  An indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any
authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced.  The Company may charge for its expenses in replacing a Note.
 
Every replacement Note is an additional obligation of the Company and will be entitled to all of the benefits of this Supplemental Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
 
Section 2.08          
Outstanding Notes.
 
The Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Note effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding.  Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note.
 
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser.
 
If the principal amount of any Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue.
 
If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Notes will be deemed to be no longer outstanding and will cease to accrue interest.
 
Section 2.09          
Treasury Notes.
 
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, will be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee will be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned will be so disregarded.
 
Section 2.10          
Temporary Notes.
 
Until certificates representing Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, will authenticate temporary Notes.  Temporary Notes will be substantially in the form of certificated Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes and as will be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.  Without unreasonable delay, the Company will prepare and the Trustee will authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
 
Holders of temporary Notes will be entitled to all of the benefits of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
Section 2.11          
Cancellation.
 
The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation.  The Registrar and Paying Agent will forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment.  The Trustee and no one else will cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and will return such canceled Notes to the
Company.  The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that it has paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
Section 2.12          
Defaulted Interest.
 
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it will pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner , to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof.  The Company will notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment.  The Company will fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, that no such special record date will be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest.  At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) will mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.
plus
provided
 
Section 2.13          
CUSIP Number.
 
The Company in issuing the Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee will use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption will not be affected by any defect in or the omission of such numbers.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
provided
 
Section 2.14          
Issuance of Additional Notes.
 
The Company will be entitled, upon delivery of an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, subject to its compliance with Section 4.09 hereof, to issue Additional Notes under this Supplemental Indenture which will have identical terms as the Initial Notes issued on the date hereof, other than with respect to the date of issuance and issue price.  The Initial Notes issued on the date hereof and any Additional Notes issued will be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Supplemental Indenture.
 
With respect to any Additional Notes, the Company will set forth in a resolution of its Board of Directors and an Officer's Certificate, a copy of each which will be delivered to the Trustee, the following information:
 
(a)           the aggregate principal amount of such Additional Notes to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture; and
 
(b)           the issue price, the issue date and the CUSIP number of such Additional Notes.
ARTICLE 3.
REDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENT
 
Section 3.01          
Notice to Trustee.
 
If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to the redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof, it will furnish to the Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers' Certificate setting forth:
 
(i) the provision of this Supplemental Indenture pursuant to which the redemption will occur;
 
(ii) the redemption date;
 
(iii) the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed;
 
(iv) the redemption price; and
 
(v) the CUSIP numbers of the Notes to be redeemed.
 
Section 3.02          
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed.
 
If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select the Notes to be redeemed among the Holders of the Notes (a) in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes are listed or, (b) if the Notes are not so listed, on a basis, by lot or in accordance with any other method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate.  In the event of partial redemption by lot, the particular Notes to be redeemed will be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Trustee from the outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption.
pro rata
 
The Trustee will promptly notify the Company in writing of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.  Notes and portions of Notes selected will be in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000; except that if all of the Notes of a Holder are to be redeemed, the entire outstanding amount of Notes held by such Holder, even if not a multiple of $1,000, will be redeemed.  Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Supplemental Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption.
 
Section 3.03          
Notice of Redemption.
 
At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address.
 
The notice will identify the Notes to be redeemed, including the CUSIP numbers, and will state:
 
(1)           the redemption date;
 
(2)           the redemption price;
 
(3)           if any Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Note, a new Note
or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion will be issued in the name of the Holder of such Notes upon cancellation of the original Note;
 
(4)           the name and address of the Paying Agent;
 
(5)           that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
 
(6)           that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
 
(7)           the paragraph of the Notes and/or Section of this Supplemental Indenture pursuant to which the Notes called for redemption are being redeemed; and
 
(8)           that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Notes.
 
At the Company's request, the Trustee will give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense; , , that the Company will have delivered to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the redemption date (or such shorter period as the Trustee in its sole discretion may allow), an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph.
provided
however
 
Section 3.04          
Effect of Notice of Redemption.
 
Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price.  A notice of redemption may not be conditional.
 
Section 3.05          
Deposit of Redemption Price.
 
One Business Day prior to the redemption date, the Company will deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Notes to be redeemed on that date.  The Trustee or the Paying Agent will promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, all Notes to be redeemed.
 
If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or the portions of Notes called for redemption.  If a Note is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest will be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such record date.  If any Note called for redemption will not be so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest will be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof.
Section 3.06          
Notes Redeemed in Part.
 
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Company will issue and, upon the Company's written request, the Trustee will authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Company a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered.
 
No Notes of $1,000 or less can be redeemed in part.
 
Section 3.07          
Optional Redemption.
 
(a)           At any time prior to March 15, 2009, the Company may, on any one or more occasions, redeem, in whole or in part, up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, including Additional Notes of the same class, if any, issued under this Supplemental Indenture at a redemption price of par plus the stated interest rate, or 106.625% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings; that: 
provided,
 
(1)           at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, including Additional Notes of the same class, if any, issued under this Supplemental Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption, excluding Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries; and
 
(2)           the redemption occurs within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering. 
 
(b)           At any time prior to March 15, 2011, the Company, at its option, may redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes redeemed plus the Applicable Premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, the date of redemption, subject to the rights of Holders of Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date.
 
(c)           Except pursuant to clauses (a) and (b) above, the Notes will not be redeemable at the Company's option prior to March 15, 2011.
 
(d)           On or after March 15, 2011, the Company, at its option, may redeem all or a part of the Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices, expressed as percentages of principal amount, set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes redeemed, to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on March 15 of the years indicated below:
 
 
Section 3.08          
Mandatory Redemption.
 
The Company is not required to make any mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
Section 3.09          
Offer to Purchase by Application of Excess Proceeds.
 
In the event that, pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof, the Company is required to commence an Asset Sale Offer, it will follow the procedures specified below.
 
The Asset Sale Offer will remain open for a period of 20 Business Days following its commencement and no longer, except to the extent that a longer period is required by applicable law (the "").  No later than five Business Days after the termination of the Offer Period (the ""), the Company will purchase the principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness required to be purchased pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof (the "") or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and such other Indebtedness tendered in response to the Asset Sale Offer.  Payment for any Notes so purchased will be made in the same manner as interest payments are made.
Offer Period
Purchase Date
pari passu
Offer Amount
pari passu
 
If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest will be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest will be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer.
 
Upon the commencement of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company will send, by first class mail, a notice to the Trustee and each of the Holders.  The notice will contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable such Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer.  The Asset Sale Offer will be made to all Holders and all holders of other Indebtedness that is with the Notes containing similar provisions to those set forth in this Supplemental Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets.  The notice, which will govern the terms of the Asset Sale Offer, will state:
pari passu
 
(1)           that the Asset Sale Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 3.09 and Section 4.10 hereof and the length of time the Asset Sale Offer will remain open;
 
(2)           the Offer Amount, the purchase price and the Purchase Date;
 
(3)           that any Note not tendered or accepted for payment will continue to accrue interest;
 
(4)           that, unless the Company defaults in making such payment, any Note accepted for payment pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Purchase Date;
 
(5)           that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer may only elect to have all of such Note purchased and may not elect to have only a portion of such Note purchased;
 
(6)           that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to any Asset Sale Offer will be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Company, a depositary, if appointed by the Company, or a Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice at least three days before the Purchase Date;
 
(7)           that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Company, the depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, receives, not later than the expiration of the Offer Period, a telegram, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the
principal amount of the Note the Holder delivered for purchase and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Note purchased;
 
(8)           that, if the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other Indebtedness surrendered by Holders exceeds the Offer Amount, the Company will select the Notes and other Indebtedness to be purchased on a basis based on the principal amount of Notes and other Indebtedness surrendered (with such adjustments as may be deemed appropriate by the Company so that only Notes in denominations of $1,000, or integral multiples thereof, will be purchased); and
pari passu
pari passu
pro rata
pari passu
 
(9)           that Holders whose Notes were purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered (or transferred by book-entry transfer).
 
On or before the Purchase Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, accept for payment, on a basis to the extent necessary, the Offer Amount of Notes or portions thereof tendered pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered, and will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.09.  The Company, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, will promptly (but in any case not later than five days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price of the Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company will promptly issue a new Note, and the Trustee, upon written request from the Company will authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note to such Holder, in a principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered.  Any Note not so accepted will be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof.  The Company will publicly announce the results of the Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date.
pro rata
 
Other than as specifically provided in this Section 3.09, any purchase pursuant to this Section 3.09 will be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06 hereof.  Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the amount of Excess Proceeds will be reset at zero.
 
ARTICLE 4.
COVENANTS
 
Section 4.01          
Payment of Notes.
 
The Company or a Guarantor will pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes.  Principal, premium, if any, and interest will be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest then due. 
 
The Company or a Guarantor will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful.
Section 4.02          
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
 
The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture may be served.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency.  If at any time the Company fails to maintain any such required office or agency or fails to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; that no such designation or rescission will in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided, however,
 
The Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.03 hereof.
 
Section 4.03          
Reports.
 
(a)          
Whether or not the Company is required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, so long as any Notes are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Holders of Notes within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations:
 
(1)          
all quarterly and annual financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the SEC on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file such Forms, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and, with respect to the annual information only, a report on the annual financial statements by the Company's independent registered public accountants (which will be firm(s) of established national reputation); and
 
(2)           all current reports that would be required to be filed with the SEC on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports. 
 
In addition, whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company will file a copy of all such information and reports referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above with the SEC for public availability within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations, unless the SEC will not accept such a filing, and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request.  The Company will at all times comply with TIA Section 314(a).  Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such will not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
If the Company is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for any reason, the Company will nevertheless continue filing the reports specified in the preceding paragraphs of this Section 4.02 with the SEC within the time periods specified above unless the SEC will not accept such a filing. The Company agrees that it will not take any action for the purpose of causing
the SEC not to accept any such filings. If, notwithstanding the foregoing, the SEC will not accept the Company's filings for any reason, the Company will post the reports referred to in the preceding paragraphs on its website within the time periods that would apply if it was required to file those reports with the SEC.
 
(b)           For so long as any Notes remain outstanding, the Company and the Guarantors will furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
Section 4.04          
Compliance Certificate.
 
(a)           The Company and each Guarantor (to the extent that such Guarantor is so required under the TIA) will deliver to the Trustee, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Supplemental Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Supplemental Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Supplemental Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default will have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
(b)           So long as not contrary to the then current recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the year-end financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.03(a) above will be accompanied by a written statement of the Company's independent registered public accountants (who will be a firm of established national reputation) that in making the examination necessary for certification of such financial statements, nothing has come to their attention that would lead them to believe that the Company has violated any provisions of Article 4 or Article 5 hereof or, if any such violation has occurred, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof, it being understood that such accountants will not be liable directly or indirectly to any Person for any failure to obtain knowledge of any such violation.
 
(c)           The Company will, so long as any of the Notes are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible, but in no event later than five days after any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
Section 4.05
           Taxes.
 
The Company will pay, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
Section 4.06
           Stay, Extension and Usury Laws.
 
The Company and each of the Guarantors covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Supplemental Indenture; and the Company and each of the Guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
 
Section 4.07
           Restricted Payments.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly: 
 
(i) declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of the Company's Equity Interests, including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company, or to the direct or indirect holders of the Company's Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends or distributions payable in Equity Interests, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company);
 
(ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value, including, without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Company, any Equity Interests of the Company;
 
(iii) make any payment on or with respect to, or purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value any Indebtedness that is subordinated to the Notes or the Guarantees, except a payment of interest or principal at the Stated Maturity of such Indebtedness; , that this restriction does not apply to a purchase, redemption or defeasance made in anticipation of satisfying a sinking fund obligation, principal installment or final maturity, in each case due within one year of date of such purchase, redemption or defeasance; or
provided
 
(iv) make any Restricted Investment;
 
(all such payments and other actions set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) above being collectively referred to as ""),
Restricted Payments
 
unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment:
 
(a)           no Default or Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence of such Restricted Payment; and
 
(b)           the Company would, at the time of such Restricted Payment and after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such Restricted Payment had been made at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, have been permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof; and
 
(c)           such Restricted Payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other Restricted Payments made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after August 10, 1998, excluding
Restricted Payments permitted by clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), (vi) and (x) of the next succeeding paragraph, is less than the sum, without duplication, of:
 
(i) 50% of the Consolidated Net Income of the Company for the period (taken as one accounting period) from the beginning of the first fiscal quarter commencing August 10, 1998 to the end of the Company's most recently ended fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available at the time of such Restricted Payment, or, if such Consolidated Net Income for such period is a deficit, less 100% of such deficit,
plus
 
(ii) 100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds or the fair market value of property other than cash received by the Company since August 10, 1998 as a contribution to its common equity capital or from the issue or sale of Equity Interests of the Company (other than Disqualified Stock), or from the issue or sale of Disqualified Stock or debt securities of the Company that have been converted into or exchanged for such Equity Interests, other than Equity Interests, Disqualified Stock or debt securities sold to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company,
plus
 
(iii) to the extent not already included in Consolidated Net Income of the Company for such period and without duplication, any Restricted Investment that was made by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after August 10, 1998 is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash, or any Unrestricted Subsidiary which is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary subsequent to August 10, 1998 is sold for cash or otherwise liquidated or repaid for cash or redesignated as a Restricted Subsidiary, 100% of the cash return of capital with respect to such Restricted Investment or Unrestricted Subsidiary, less the cost of disposition, if any plus 50% of the excess of the fair market value of the Company's Investment in such Unrestricted Subsidiary as of the date of such redesignation over the amount of the Restricted Investment that reduced this clause (c); , that any amounts that increase this clause (c) will not duplicatively increase amounts available as Permitted Investments.
provided
 
The foregoing provisions will not prohibit:
 
(i)            the payment of any dividend within 60 days after the date of declaration of the dividend, if at the date of declaration the dividend payment would have complied with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(ii)           the making of any Restricted Payment in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale, other than to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, of Equity Interests of the Company, other than Disqualified Stock; that the amount of any such net cash proceeds that are utilized for any such redemption, repurchase, retirement, defeasance or other acquisition will be excluded from clause (c) (ii) of the preceding paragraph;
provided
 
(iii)          the payment, purchase, defeasance, retirement redemption, repurchase or other acquisition (a) of subordinated Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with the net cash proceeds from an incurrence of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness or (b) of any Disqualified Stock of the Company in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of the substantially concurrent sale of, Disqualified Stock of the Company that is not prohibited by the terms of this Supplemental Indenture to be issued;
 
(iv)          the payment of dividends on the Company's common stock of up to a combined amount of $30.0 million per annum; that up to $10.0 million of such amount that is not
provided
utilized by the Company to pay dividends in any calendar year may be carried forward to any subsequent year;
 
(v)           (a) the repurchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of any Equity Interests of the Company that are held by any member of the Company's, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries', management pursuant to any management equity subscription agreement or stock option agreement or (b) the repurchase of Equity Interests of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company held by employee benefits plans, whether directly or for employees, directors or former directors, pursuant to the terms of agreements, other than management equity subscription agreements or stock option agreements, approved by the Company's Board of Directors; that, in the case of foregoing clause (a) the aggregate price paid for all such repurchased, redeemed, acquired or retired Equity Interests will not exceed $50.0 million in the aggregate since the date of this Supplemental Indenture and, in the case of foregoing clause (b), the aggregate purchase price paid for all such repurchased Equity Interests will not exceed $25.0 million in any twelve-month period;
provided
 
(vi)          repurchases of Equity Interests deemed to occur upon exercise of stock options if such Equity Interests represent a portion of the exercise price of such options;
 
(vii)         the distribution, as a dividend or otherwise, of shares of Capital Stock of, or Indebtedness owed to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company by, Unrestricted Subsidiaries;
 
(viii)        the payment of any dividend by a Restricted Subsidiary to the holders of all of its Equity Interests on a pro rata basis;
 
(ix)           other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount since the date of this Supplemental Indenture not to exceed $100.0 million under this clause (ix); and
 
(x)            other Restricted Payments of the kind contemplated by clause (i) or (ii) of the definition of Restricted Payments if, immediately after giving effect to such Restricted Payment as if it had occurred at the beginning of the Company's most recently ended four full fiscal quarters for which internal financial statements are available, the Company's Leverage Ratio would have been less than 3.5 to 1.0 and the notes would have been rated Ba3 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody's and BB- (or the equivalent thereof) or better by S&P (, that if either such entity ceases to rate the notes for reasons outside of the control of the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company as a replacement agency will be deemed to satisfy the rating requirement for the rating agency so replaced).
provided
 
provided
that, with respect to clauses (iv), (ix) and (x) above, no Default or Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing immediately after such transaction or as a consequence thereof.
 
The amount of all Restricted Payments, other than cash, will be the fair market value on the date of the Restricted Payment of the assets or securities proposed to be transferred or issued by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, pursuant to the Restricted Payment.  The fair market value of any assets or securities that are required to be valued by this Section 4.07 will be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company whose resolution with respect thereto will be delivered to the Trustee.
If any Restricted Investment is sold or otherwise liquidated or repaid or any dividend or payment is received by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and such amounts may be credited to clause (c) above, then such amounts will be credited only to the extent of amounts not otherwise included in Consolidated Net Income and that do not otherwise increase the amount available as a Permitted Investment.
 
Section 4.08
           Dividends and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or permit to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to:
 
(a)           pay dividends or make any other distributions on its Capital Stock to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or with respect to any other interest or participation in, or measured by, its profits, or pay any Indebtedness owed to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(b)           make loans or advances to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; or
 
(c)           transfer any of its properties or assets to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
However, the preceding restrictions do not apply to such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of
 
(a) agreements governing Existing Indebtedness as in effect on the date of this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(b) other encumbrances and restrictions in effect on the date of this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(c) any Credit Facilities, including the Existing Credit Facilities, as in effect on the date of this Supplemental Indenture, and any extensions, amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof and other Credit Facilities not prohibited under this Supplemental Indenture, that such extensions, amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings and other Credit Facilities are not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, with respect to such dividend and other payment restrictions than those contained in the Existing Credit Facilities as in effect on the date of this Supplemental Indenture;
provided
 
(d) the several indentures governing the Notes, the Existing Notes and the related Guarantees;
 
(e) applicable law or any applicable rule, regulation or order;
 
(f) existing with respect to any Person or the property or assets of such person acquired by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries as in effect at the time of such acquisition, and not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition, which encumbrance or restriction is not applicable to any Person, or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person, or the property or assets of the Person, so acquired, , that in the case of Indebtedness, such Indebtedness was permitted by the terms of this Supplemental Indenture to be incurred;
provided
 
(g) customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(h) purchase money obligations for property acquired in the ordinary course of business that impose restrictions on that property of the nature described in clause (c) of the preceding paragraph;
 
(i) Indebtedness of Restricted Subsidiaries; that such Indebtedness was not prohibited under this Supplemental Indenture;
provided
 
(j) Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness; that the restrictions contained in the agreements governing such Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness are not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those contained in the agreements governing the Indebtedness being refinanced;
provided
 
(k) Liens securing Indebtedness otherwise permitted to be incurred under the provisions of Section 4.12 hereof that limit the right of the debtor to dispose of the assets subject to such Liens;
 
(l) provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property in joint venture agreements, asset sale agreements, stock sale agreements and other similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business;
 
(m) any Purchase Money Note, or other Indebtedness or other contractual requirements of a Securitization Entity in connection with a Qualified Securitization Transaction; that such restrictions may apply only to such Securitization Entity;
provided
 
(n) any restriction with respect to a Restricted Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement entered into for the sale or disposition of all or substantially all the Capital Stock or assets of such Restricted Subsidiary pending the closing of such sale or disposition;
 
(o) restrictions on cash or other deposits or net worth imposed by customers under contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business; and
 
(p) any encumbrance or restriction of the type referred to in clauses (a) through (c) of the first paragraph of this Section 4.08 imposed by any extension, amendment, modification, restatement, renewal, increase, supplement, refunding, replacement or refinancing of an agreement, contract, instrument or obligation referred to in clauses (a) through (o) above that is not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, than the encumbrance or restriction imposed by the applicable predecessor agreement, contract, instrument or obligation.
 
Section 4.09
           Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Disqualified and Preferred Stock.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to Incur any Indebtedness, including Acquired Debt, and the Company will not issue any Disqualified Stock and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; , , that the Company may Incur Indebtedness, including Acquired Debt, or issue Disqualified Stock and any of the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries may Incur Indebtedness if the Company's Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company's most recently ended four full fiscal quarters for which internal financial statements are available immediately preceding the date on which such additional Indebtedness is Incurred or such Disqualified Stock is issued would have been at least 2.0 to 1, determined on a pro forma basis, including a pro forma application of the net proceeds therefrom, as if the additional Indebtedness had been Incurred, or the Disqualified Stock had been issued, as the case may be, at the beginning of such four-quarter period.
provided
however
The provisions of the first paragraph of this Section 4.09 will not prohibit the Incurrence of any of the following items of Indebtedness, Disqualified Stock or the issuance of preferred stock, as applicable (collectively, ""):
Permitted Debt
 
(i)            the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness under Credit Facilities in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding under this clause (i), with letters of credit being deemed to have a principal amount equal to the maximum potential liability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries thereunder, not to exceed $2,000 million the aggregate amount of all Net Proceeds of Asset Sales applied by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries since the date of this Supplemental Indenture to repay any term Indebtedness under any Credit Facility or to repay any revolving credit Indebtedness under any Credit Facility pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof;
less
 
(ii)           the Incurrence by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries of the Existing Indebtedness;
 
(iii)          the Incurrence by the Company and the Guarantors of Indebtedness represented by the Notes and the Guarantees to be issued on the date of this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(iv)          the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness represented by Capital Lease Obligations, mortgage financings or purchase money obligations, in each case, Incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or cost of design, construction or improvement of property, plant or equipment used in the business of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, in an aggregate principal amount, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness Incurred to refund, refinance or replace any Indebtedness Incurred pursuant to this clause (iv), not to exceed 7.5% of Total Assets at any time outstanding;
 
(v)           the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness;
 
(vi)          the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of intercompany Indebtedness between or among the Company and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; , , that:
provided
however
 
(i) if the Company or any Guarantor is the obligor on such Indebtedness, such Indebtedness must be expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full in cash of all Obligations with respect to the Notes, in the case of the Company, or any such Guarantor's Guarantee, in the case of a Guarantor; and
 
(ii) (a) any subsequent issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such Indebtedness being held by a Person other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and (b) any sale or other transfer of any such Indebtedness to a Person that is not either the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company will be deemed, in each case, to constitute an Incurrence of such Indebtedness by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, that was not permitted by this clause (vi);
 
(vii)         the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Hedging Obligations that are Incurred in the normal course of business and not for speculative purposes;
(viii)        the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of Indebtedness in the ordinary course of business solely in respect of performance, bid, surety, appeal and similar bonds, completion or performance guarantees or standby letters of credit (not supporting Indebtedness for borrowed money) issued for the purpose of supporting workers' compensation liabilities of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(ix)           the Incurrence of Indebtedness arising from agreements of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company providing for indemnification, adjustment of purchase price or similar obligations, in each case, Incurred or assumed in connection with the disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary;
 
(x)            the Incurrence by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of Indebtedness in connection with and in contemplation of, the concurrent disposition of such Restricted Subsidiary to the stockholders of the Company; that such disposition occurs concurrently with such Incurrence and following such disposition, neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any liability with respect to such Indebtedness;
provided
 
(xi)           the Incurrence by a Securitization Entity of Indebtedness in a Qualified Securitization Transaction that is Non-Recourse Debt with respect to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than Securitization Entities), except for Standard Securitization Undertakings and Limited Originator Recourse;
 
(xii)          the guarantee by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company that was permitted to be Incurred by another provision of this Section 4.09;
 
(xiii)         the Incurrence of Indebtedness of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary owed to, including obligations in respect of letters of credit for the benefit of, any Person in connection with workers' compensation, health, disability or other employee benefits or property, casualty or liability insurance provided by such Person to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, pursuant to reimbursement or indemnification obligations to such Person, in each case Incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(xiv)        the Incurrence of Indebtedness arising from the honoring by a bank or other financial institution of a check, draft or similar instrument drawn against insufficient funds in the ordinary course of business, that such Indebtedness is extinguished within two business days of its Incurrence;
provided
 
(xv)         the issuance of shares of preferred stock by a Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary; that any subsequent issuance or transfer of any Capital Stock or any other event which results in any such Restricted Subsidiary ceasing to be a Restricted Subsidiary or any other subsequent transfer of any such shares of preferred stock (except to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary) will be deemed in each case to be an issuance of such shares of preferred stock that was not permitted by this clause (xv); and
provided
 
(xvi)        the Incurrence by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of additional Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount, or accreted value, as applicable, at any time outstanding, including all Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness Incurred to refund, refinance or replace any Indebtedness Incurred pursuant to this clause (xvi), not to exceed $200 million.
The Company will not Incur any Indebtedness (including Permitted Debt) that is contractually subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company unless such Indebtedness is also contractually subordinated in right of payment to the Notes on substantially identical terms; , , that no Indebtedness of the Company will be deemed to be contractually subordinated in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company solely by virtue of being unsecured or by virtue of being secured on first or junior Lien basis. 
provided
however
 
For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.09, in the event that an item of proposed Indebtedness meets the criteria of more than one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in clauses (i) through (xvi) above, or is entitled to be Incurred pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 4.09, the Company, in its sole discretion, will be permitted to classify such item of Indebtedness on the date of its Incurrence, or later reclassify such item of Indebtedness, in any manner that complies with this Section 4.09, except that Indebtedness under Credit Facilities outstanding on the date on which Notes are first issued and authenticated under this Supplemental Indenture will initially be deemed to have been Incurred on such date in reliance on the exception provided by clause (i) of the definition of Permitted Debt. 
 
The accrual of interest, the accretion or amortization of original issue discount, the payment of interest on any Indebtedness in the form of additional Indebtedness with the same or substantially similar terms, the reclassification of Equity Interests as Indebtedness due to a change in accounting principles, and the payment of dividends on Disqualified Stock in the form of additional shares of the same or a substantially similar class of Disqualified Stock will not be deemed to be an Incurrence of Indebtedness or an issuance of Disqualified Stock for purposes of this Section 4.09.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this covenant, the maximum amount of Indebtedness that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may Incur pursuant to this covenant will not be deemed to be exceeded solely as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates or currency values.
 
Section 4.10
           Asset Sales.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless:
 
(i) the Company or the Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, receives consideration (including assumption of liabilities) at the time of the Asset Sale at least equal to the fair market value of the assets or Equity Interests issued or sold or otherwise disposed of;
 
(ii) the fair market value is determined by the Company's Board of Directors or Chief Financial Officer and evidenced by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee with respect to any Asset Sale determined to have a fair market value greater than $50 million; and
 
(iii) at least 75% of the consideration received in the Asset Sale by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash or Cash Equivalents.  For purposes of this provision, each of the following will be deemed to be cash:
 
(w) any liabilities, as shown on the Company's or such Restricted Subsidiary's most recent consolidated balance sheet, of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, other than contingent liabilities and liabilities of the Company that are by their terms subordinated to the Notes or any Guarantee thereof, that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets;
 
(x) any securities, notes or other obligations received by the Company or any such Restricted Subsidiary from such transferee that are converted by the Company or such Restricted
Subsidiary into cash within 180 days after the consummation of such Asset Sale, to the extent of the cash received in that conversion;
 
(y) any Designated Noncash Consideration received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in such Asset Sale; that the aggregate fair market value, as determined above, of such Designated Noncash Consideration, taken together with the fair market value at the time of receipt of all other Designated Noncash Consideration received pursuant to this clause (y) less the amount of Net Proceeds previously realized in cash from prior Designated Noncash Consideration is less than 7.5% of Total Assets at the time of the receipt of such Designated Noncash Consideration, with the fair market value of each item of Designated Noncash Consideration being measured at the time received and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value; and
provided
 
(z) Additional Assets;
 
provided
, that this clause (iii) will not be applicable to any sale or other disposition of all or a portion of the business constituting the aerospace and technologies segment of the Company.
 
Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale, the Company may, at its option and to the extent the Company elects, apply those Net Proceeds:
 
(a) to repay Indebtedness and other Obligations under any Credit Facility;
 
(b) to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or any Capital Stock of, another Permitted Business, if, after giving effect to any such acquisition of Capital Stock, the Permitted Business is or becomes a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company;
 
(c) to make a capital expenditure in a Permitted Business;
 
(d) to acquire other long-term assets that are used or useful in a Permitted Business; or
 
(e) to make an Investment in Additional Assets; , that the Company will be deemed to have complied with this clause (e) if, within 365 days of such Asset Sale, the Company will have entered into a definitive agreement covering such Investment which is thereafter completed within 365 days after the first anniversary of such Asset Sale.
provided
 
Pending the final application of any Net Proceeds, the Company may temporarily reduce Indebtedness or otherwise invest the Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by this Supplemental Indenture.
 
Any Net Proceeds from Asset Sales that are not applied or invested as provided in the second preceding paragraph will constitute "."  When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $50.0 million, the Company will make an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Supplemental Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (an "") to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds.  The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer will be equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase, and will be payable in cash.  If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company may use those Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Supplemental Indenture.  If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other Indebtedness
Excess Proceeds
pari passu
Asset Sale Offer
pari passu
pari passu
tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee will select the Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis.  Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the amount of Excess Proceeds will be reset at zero.
pari passu
 
Section 4.11
           Transactions With Affiliates.
 
(a)           The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate (each of the foregoing, an ""), unless
Affiliate Transaction
 
(1)           such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to the Company or the relevant Restricted Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary with an unrelated Person; and
 
(2)           the Company delivers to the Trustee:
 
(A)          with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $25 million, a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company set forth in an Officers' Certificate certifying that such Affiliate Transaction complies with clause (1) above and that such Affiliate Transaction has been approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors of the Company; and
 
(B)           with respect to any Affiliate Transaction or series of related Affiliate Transactions involving aggregate consideration in excess of $50 million, an opinion as to the fairness to the Company of such Affiliate Transaction from a financial point of view issued by an accounting, appraisal or investment banking firm of national standing.
 
(b)           The following items will not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and, therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of Section 4.11(a) hereof:
 
(1)           any employment, severance or termination agreement entered into by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business;
 
(2)           transactions between or among the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(3)           transactions between or among the Company and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries with Ball Asia Pacific and Permitted Joint Ventures on terms that are no less favorable to the Company and/or such Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by the Company and/or such Subsidiary with an unrelated Person;
 
(4)           any sale or other issuance of Equity Interests, other than Disqualified Stock, to Affiliates of the Company;
 
(5)           Restricted Payments that are permitted by and Investments that are not prohibited by Section 4.07 hereof;
(6)           fees and compensation paid to members of the Board of Directors of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in their capacity as such;
 
(7)           advances to employees for moving, entertainment and travel expenses, drawing accounts and similar expenditures in the ordinary course of business;
 
(8)           fees and compensation paid to, and indemnity provided on behalf of, officers, directors or employees of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company or of any such Restricted Subsidiary, to the extent such fees and compensation are reasonable and customary;
 
(9)           transactions effected as part of a Qualified Securitization Transaction;
 
(10)         the grant of stock options or similar rights to officers, employees, consultants and directors of the Company and, to the extent otherwise permitted under this Supplemental Indenture, to any Restricted Subsidiary, pursuant to plans approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and issuance of securities pursuant thereto; and
 
(11)         transactions pursuant to any arrangement, contract or agreement in existence on the date of this Supplemental Indenture, as such arrangement may be amended or restated, renewed, extended, refinanced, refunded or replaced from time to time, that any such amendment or restatement, renewal, extension, refinancing, refund or replacement is on terms and conditions not materially less favorable to the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole than the arrangement, contract or agreement in existence on the date of this Supplemental Indenture.
provided
 
Section 4.12
           Liens.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien of any kind securing Indebtedness, Attributable Debt, or trade payables, other than Permitted Liens, upon any of their property or assets, now owned or hereafter acquired, unless all payments due under this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligations so secured until such time as such obligations are no longer secured by a Lien.
 
Section 4.13
           Business Activities.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, engage in any business other than Permitted Businesses, except to such extent as would not be material to the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
Section 4.14
           Corporate Existence.
 
Subject to Articles 5 and 10 hereof, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect (i) its corporate existence, and the corporate, partnership or other existence of each of its Restricted Subsidiaries and any Unrestricted Subsidiary with $20 million of net sales in the most recent twelve month period or assets of $20 million, in accordance with the respective organizational documents (as the same may be amended from time to time) of the Company, any Restricted Subsidiary or any Unrestricted Subsidiary with $20 million of net sales in the most recent twelve month period or assets of $20 million and (ii) the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company, its Restricted Subsidiaries and any Unrestricted Subsidiary with $20 million
of net sales in the most recent twelve month period or assets of $20 million; , that the Company will not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise, or the corporate, partnership or other existence of any of its Subsidiaries, if the Board of Directors will determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
provided, however
 
Section 4.15
           Offer to Purchase Upon Change of Control.
 
(a)           If a Change of Control occurs, and the Company does not redeem the Notes as described in Section 3.07 hereof within 60 days after the Change of Control, each Holder of Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part, equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000, of that Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "") at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase (the "").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control, or, at the Company's option, prior to the consummation of such Change of Control but after the public announcement thereof, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Notes on the date specified in such notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""), pursuant to the procedures required by this Supplemental Indenture and described in such notice.  The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of this Supplemental Indenture by virtue of such compliance.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
 
(b)           On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful,
 
(1)           accept for payment all Notes or portions of the Notes (in integral multiples of $1,000) properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(2)           deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered; and
 
(3)           deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of the Notes being purchased by the Company. 
 
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000.  The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
 
The provisions described above that require the Company to make a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control will be applicable whether or not any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture are applicable.  Except as described above with respect to a Change of Control,
this Supplemental Indenture does not contain provisions that permit the Holders of the Notes to require that the Company repurchase or redeem the Notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction.
 
(c)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.15, the Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Supplemental Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
 
Section 4.16
           Additional Guarantees.
 
If the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries acquires or creates another Domestic Subsidiary after the date of this Supplemental Indenture, then that newly acquired or created Domestic Subsidiary will become a Guarantor and execute and deliver a supplemental indenture to the Trustee in the form of within 20 business days of the date on which it was acquired or created; , that this Section 4.16 does not apply to any Subsidiary that has properly been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture for so long as it continues to constitute an Unrestricted Subsidiary or to any Excluded Subsidiary for so long as it continues to constitute an Excluded Subsidiary.
Exhibit C
provided
 
Section 4.17
           Payment for Consents.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration to or for the benefit of any Holder of Notes for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid and is paid to all Holders of the Notes that consent, waive or agree to amend in the time frame set forth in the solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement.
 
Section 4.18
           Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; that the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may enter into a sale and leaseback transaction if:
provided
 
(i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as applicable, could have incurred Indebtedness in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt relating to such sale and leaseback transaction pursuant to Section 4.09 hereof;
 
(ii) the gross cash proceeds of such sale and leaseback transaction are at least equal to the fair market value, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, of the property that is the subject of that sale and leaseback transaction; and
 
(iii) the transfer of assets in that sale and leaseback transaction is permitted by, and the Company applies the proceeds of such transaction in compliance with, Section 4.10 hereof.
Section 4.19
           Designation of Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
 
The Board of Directors may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if that designation would not cause a Default.  If a Restricted Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, the aggregate fair market value of all outstanding Investments owned by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the Subsidiary properly designated will be deemed to be an Investment made as of the time of the designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under the first paragraph of Section 4.07 hereof or Permitted Investments, as determined by the Company.  That designation will only be permitted if the Investment would be permitted at that time and if the Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary.  The Board of Directors may at any time redesignate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary if the redesignation would not cause a Default.
 
Section 4.20
           Certain Covenants to Be Suspended Under Certain Conditions.
 
The covenants set forth in Section 4.01 through Section 4.19, inclusive, of this Supplemental Indenture will be applicable to the Company (and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries, as appropriate) except that during any period of time that (i) the Notes are rated BBB- (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Standard & Poor's Ratings Group ("") and Baa3 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("" and, together with S&P, the "") ( that if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company as a replacement agency will be deemed to satisfy the rating requirements for the Rating Agency so replaced) (the ""), and (ii) no Default or Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing, then beginning on that day and continuing at all times thereafter regardless of any subsequent changes in the rating of the Notes, the Company and its Subsidiaries will not be subject to the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture described in Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.19 and clause (iv) of Section 5.01, (collectively, the "").
S&P
Moody's
Rating Agencies
provided
Investment Grade Ratings
Suspended Covenants
 
ARTICLE 5.
SUCCESSORS
 
Section 5.01
           Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets.
 
The Company will not, directly or indirectly: (1) consolidate or merge with or into another person, whether or not the Company is the surviving corporation, or (2) sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to another Person unless:
 
(i) either: (a) the Company is the surviving corporation; or (b) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition will have been made is a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia;
 
(ii) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition will have been made assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
 
(iii) immediately after such transaction no Default or Event of Default exists; and
(iv) either:
 
(a) except in the case of a merger of the Company with or into a Subsidiary, the Company or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition will have been made will on the date of such transaction after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof or
 
(b) the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Company, or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition will have been made would, immediately after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, not be less than such Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries immediately prior to such transaction,
 
provided
, , that clause (iv) above does not apply if, in the good faith determination of the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination will be evidenced by a board resolution, the purpose of such transactions is to change the state of incorporation of the Company.  The Company may not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person.  The provisions of this Section 5.01 will not apply to a sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
however
 
Section 5.02          
Successor Corporation Substituted..
 
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 hereof, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made will succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture referring to the "Company" will refer instead to the successor corporation and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Supplemental Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; , that the predecessor Company will not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Company's assets that meets the requirements of Section 5.01 hereof.
provided, however
 
ARTICLE 6.
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
 
Section 6.01          
Events of Default.
 
Each of the following is an ""
Event of Default:
 
(a)           default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes;
 
(b)           default in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes;
(c)           the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Section 5.01 hereof;
 
(d)           the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 30 days after notice from the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes to comply with the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 hereof;
 
(e)           the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 60 days after notice from the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes to comply with any of the other agreements in this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes;
 
(f)            the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) defaults under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Supplemental Indenture, if that default:
 
(1)           is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness on or before the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a ""); or
Payment Default
 
(2)           results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity,
 
and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $50 million or more or its foreign currency equivalent;
 
(g)           the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $50 million or its foreign currency equivalent, excluding amounts covered by insurance, which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days;
 
(h)           the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law:
 
(i)            commences a voluntary case,
 
(ii)           consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case, 
 
(iii)          consents to the appointment of a custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property,
 
(iv)          makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or
 
(v)           generally is not paying its debts as they become due; or
 
(i)            a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(i)            is for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case;
 
(ii)           appoints a custodian of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary or for all or substantially all of the property of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; or
 
(iii)          orders the liquidation of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary;
 
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days; or
 
(j)            except as permitted by this Supplemental Indenture, any Guarantee will be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or will cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, will deny or disaffirm its obligations under its Guarantee.
 
Section 6.02
           Acceleration.
 
If any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in clause (h) or (i) of Section 6.01 hereof) with respect to the Company, any Significant Subsidiary that is a Restricted Subsidiary, as applicable, or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately.  Upon any such declaration, the Notes will become due and payable immediately.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in clause (h) or (i) of Section 6.01 hereof occurs with respect to the Company, any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all outstanding Notes will be due and payable without further action or notice.  Holders of the Notes may not enforce this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes except as provided in this Supplemental Indenture.
 
In the case of any Event of Default occurring by reason of any willful action (or inaction) taken (or not taken) by or on behalf of the Company with the intention of avoiding payment of the premium that the Company would have had to pay if the Company then had elected to redeem the Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, an equivalent premium will also become and be immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the Notes. 
 
The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with this Supplemental Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
 
Section 6.03
           Other Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Supplemental Indenture.
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding.  A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default will not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default.  All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
 
Section 6.04
           Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under this Supplemental Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Notes (including in connection with an offer to purchase); , , that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration.  Upon any such waiver, such Default or Event of Default will cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom will be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Supplemental Indenture; but no such waiver will extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
provided
however
 
Section 6.05          
Control by Majority.
 
Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it.  However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Supplemental Indenture that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Notes or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability.
 
Section 6.06          
Limitation on Suits.
 
A Holder of a Note may pursue a remedy with respect to this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes only if:
 
(a)           the Holder of a Note gives to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default;
 
(b)           the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
 
(c)           such Holder of a Note or Holders of Notes offer and, if requested, provide to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(d)           the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer and, if requested, the provision of indemnity; and
 
(e)           during such 60-day period the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request.
 
A Holder of a Note may not use this Supplemental Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Note (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to any Holder).
Section 6.07          
Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Supplemental Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal, premium and interest on the Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, will not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 6.08          
Collection Suit by Trustee.
 
If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as Trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on the Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as will be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
Section 6.09          
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and will be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee will consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof.  To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, will be denied for any reason, payment of the same will be secured by a Lien on, and will be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise.  Nothing herein contained will be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
Section 6.10
           Priorities.
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it will pay out the money in the following order:
 
First
:  to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
 
Second
:  to Holders of Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the
amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest, respectively; and
 
Third
:  to the Company.
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10.
 
Section 6.11          
Undertaking for Costs.
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Supplemental Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant.  This Section does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes.
 
ARTICLE 7.
TRUSTEE
 
Section 7.01
           Duties of Trustee.
 
(a)           If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee will exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Supplemental Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
 
(b)           Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(i)            the duties of the Trustee will be determined solely by the express provisions of this Supplemental Indenture and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Supplemental Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations will be read into this Supplemental Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(ii)           in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Supplemental Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates of opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee will be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Supplemental Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
 
(c)           The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(i)            this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section;
(ii)           the Trustee will not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
(iii)          the Trustee will not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof.
 
(d)           Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Supplemental Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) of this Section and Section 7.02.
 
(e)           No provision of this Supplemental Indenture will require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability.  The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Supplemental Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder will have offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f)            The Trustee will not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company.  Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 7.02
           Rights of Trustee.
 
(a)           The Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person.  The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
 
(b)           Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both.  The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.  The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel will be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
 
(c)           The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
 
(d)           The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Supplemental Indenture.
 
(e)           Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Supplemental Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company or any Guarantor will be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company or Guarantor issuing such demand, request or notice.
 
(f)            The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Supplemental Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders will have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
 
(g)           Whenever in the administration of this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee will deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder,
the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate.
 
(h)           The Trustee will not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a Default or Event of Default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture.
 
(i)            The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.
 
(j)            In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
(k)           The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and will be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
 
(l)            The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded..
 
Section 7.03          
Individual Rights of Trustee.
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.  However, in the event the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the SEC for permission to continue as Trustee or resign.  Any Agent may exercise the same rights, with the same duties, as the Trustee under this Section 7.03.  The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof.
 
Section 7.04
           Trustee's Disclaimer.
 
The Trustee will not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes, it will not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision of this Supplemental Indenture, it will not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, and it will not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Notes or pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture other than its certificate of authentication.
Section 7.05
           Notice of Defaults.
 
If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee will mail to Holders of Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs.  Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal of or interest on any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice from Holders of the Notes if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 7.06
           Reports by Trustee to Holders of the Notes.
 
Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Supplemental Indenture, and for so long as Notes remain outstanding, the Trustee will mail to the Holders of the Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA Section 313(a) (but if no event described in TIA Section 313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted).  The Trustee also will comply with TIA Section 313(b)(2).  The Trustee will also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA Section 313(c).
 
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Notes will be mailed to the Company and filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed in accordance with TIA Section 313(d).  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
 
Section 7.07
           Compensation and Indemnity.
 
The Company and the Guarantors will pay to the Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation as agreed upon in writing for its acceptance of this Supplemental Indenture and services hereunder.  The Trustee's compensation will not be limited by any law on compensation of a Trustee of an express trust.  The Company and the Guarantors will reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services.  Such expenses will include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
 
The Company and the Guarantors will indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (including taxes other than taxes based upon the income of the Trustee) incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Supplemental Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Supplemental Indenture against the Company and the Guarantors (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company and the Guarantors or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct.  The Trustee will notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity.  Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company will not relieve the Company and the Guarantors of its obligations hereunder.  The Company will defend the claim and the Trustee will cooperate in the defense.  The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company will pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel.  The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
 
The obligations of the Company and the Guarantors under this Section 7.07 will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Supplemental Indenture.
To secure the Company's and the Guarantors' payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee will have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Notes.  Such Lien will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(g) or (h) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
The Trustee will comply with the provisions of TIA Section 313(b)(2) to the extent applicable.
 
Section 7.08
           Replacement of Trustee.
 
A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee will become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section.
 
The Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company.  The Holders of Notes of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing.  The Company may remove the Trustee if:
 
(a)           the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof;
 
(b)           the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
 
(c)           a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(d)           the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company will promptly appoint a successor Trustee.  Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of Notes of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder of a Note who has been a Holder of a Note for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder of a Note may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
A successor Trustee will deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company.  Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee will become effective, and the successor Trustee will have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Supplemental Indenture.  The successor Trustee will mail a notice of its succession to Holders of the Notes.  The retiring Trustee will promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, all sums owing to the Trustee (including its agents and/or counsel) hereunder have been
provided
 
paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 hereof will continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
 
Section 7.09          
Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc.
 
If the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act will be the successor Trustee.
 
Section 7.10          
Eligibility; Disqualification.
 
There will at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate Trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $100 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
 
This Supplemental Indenture will always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA Section 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 310(b).
 
Section 7.11          
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
 
The Trustee is subject to TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed will be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
Section 7.12          
Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company.
 
Any application by the Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Trustee under this Supplemental Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action will be taken or such omission will be effective. The Trustee will not be liable for any action taken by, or omission of, the Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date will not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer will have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to the taking of such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Trustee will have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted.
 
Section 8.01          
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8.
Section 8.02          
Legal Defeasance and Discharge.
 
Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company and the Guarantors will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes and to have each Guarantor's obligation discharged with respect to its Guarantee on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company and the Guarantors will be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Notes, which will thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Supplemental Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Notes and this Supplemental Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, will execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which will survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:  (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Notes to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.04 hereof, and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, interest on such Notes when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to the Notes under Article 2 and Section 4.02 hereof, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's and the Guarantors' obligations in connection therewith and (d) this Article 8. Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof.
Legal Defeasance
 
Section 8.03          
Covenant Defeasance.
 
Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company and each Restricted Subsidiary will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from their obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 3.09, 4.03, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17 and 4.19 and clause (iv) of Section 5.01 hereof with respect to the outstanding Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Notes will thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but will continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes will not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes, the Company, each Guarantor and each Restricted Subsidiary may omit to comply with and will have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply will not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Supplemental Indenture and such Notes will be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(d) through 6.01(f) hereof will not constitute Events of Default.
Covenant Defeasance
 
Section 8.04          
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The following will be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof to the outstanding Notes:
 
In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance:
(a)           the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in United States dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized investment bank, appraisal firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, or interest and premium, if any, on the outstanding Notes on the Stated Maturity or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Notes are being defeased to maturity or to a particular redemption date;
 
(b)           in the case of an election under Section 8.02 hereof, the Company will have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Supplemental Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable U.S. federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel will confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(c)           in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Company will have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(d)           no Default or Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit, other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the incurrence of Indebtedness all or a portion of the proceeds of which will be used to defease the Notes pursuant to this Article 8 concurrently with such incurrence, or insofar as Sections 6.01(h) or 6.01(i) hereof is concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit;
 
(e)           such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument, other than this Supplemental Indenture, to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
 
(f)            the Company will have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of the Notes over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others; and
 
(g)           the Company will have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
 
Section 8.05          
Deposited Money and Government Securities to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
 
Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the "") pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes will be
Trustee
held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Supplemental Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company and the Guarantors will pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes.
 
Anything in this Article 8 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee will deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(a) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
Section 8.06          
Repayment to Company.
 
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable will be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) will be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note will thereafter look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, will thereupon cease; , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the reasonable expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which will not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided, however
 
Section 8.07          
Reinstatement.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes will be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; , that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company will be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided, however
Section 9.01          
Without Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Supplemental Indenture, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Supplemental Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes without the consent of any Holder of a Note:
 
(a)           to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
 
(b)           to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
 
(c)           to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to the Holders of the Notes in the case of merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets;
 
(d)           to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under this Supplemental Indenture of any Holder of the Notes;
 
(e)           to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Supplemental Indenture under the TIA;
 
(f)            to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture;
 
(g)           to conform the text of this Supplemental Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees to any provision of the "Description of the Notes" section of the Company's Prospectus Supplement dated March 7, 2006, relating to the initial offering of the Notes, to the extent that such provision in the "Description of the Notes" was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of this Supplemental Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees;
 
(h)           to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental indenture and/or a Guarantee with respect to the Notes;
 
(i)            to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee;
 
(j)            to add guarantees with respect to the Notes;
 
(k)           to secure the Notes; or
 
(l)            to release any Lien granted in favor of the Holders of the Notes pursuant to Section 4.09 hereof upon release of the Lien securing the underlying obligation that gave rise to such Lien.
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company and the Guarantors in the execution of any amended or supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Supplemental Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee will not be obligated to enter into such amended or
supplemental indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Supplemental Indenture or otherwise.
 
Section 9.02          
With Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Supplemental Indenture (including Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof), the Guarantees and the Notes with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding voting as a single class, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes, and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Supplemental Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes. Section 2.08 hereof will determine which Notes are considered to be "outstanding" for purposes of this Section 9.02.
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Supplemental Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental indenture.
 
It will not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or waiver, but it will be sufficient if such consent approves the substance of the proposed amendment or waiver.
 
After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company will mail to the Holders of Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, will not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amended or supplemental indenture or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding voting as a single class may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not, with respect to any Notes held by a non-consenting Holder:
 
(a)           reduce the principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
 
(b)           reduce the principal of or change the fixed maturity of any Note or alter or waive any of the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Notes except as provided above with respect to Sections 3.09, 4.10 and 4.15 hereof;
 
(c)           reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest, including default interest, on any Note;
 
(d)           waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration:
 
(e)           make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Notes;
 
(f)            make any change in the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of the Notes to receive payments of principal of or premium, interest on the Notes;
 
(g)           make any change in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions; or
 
(h)           release any Guarantor from any of its Obligations under its Guarantee or this Supplemental Indenture, except in accordance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
Section 9.03          
Compliance With Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every amendment or supplement to this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes will be set forth in a amended or supplemental indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
 
Section 9.04          
Revocation and Effect of Consents.
 
Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Note and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder of a Note or subsequent Holder of a Note may revoke the consent as to its Note if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the waiver, supplement or amendment becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
 
Section 9.05          
Notation on or Exchange of Notes.
 
The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Note thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for all Notes may issue and the Trustee will, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note will not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Section 9.06          
Trustee to Sign Amendments, Etc
 
The Trustee will sign any amended, restated or supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplemental indenture until the Board of Directors approves it. In executing any amended, restated or supplemental indenture, the Trustee will be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 hereof) will be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04 hereof, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended, restated or supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 10.01        
Guarantee.
 
Subject to this Article 10, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Supplemental Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that:  (a) the principal of and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors will be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
 
The Guarantors hereby agree that their obligations hereunder will be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Supplemental Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor. Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture.
 
If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors or any custodian, Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, will be reinstated in full force and effect.
 
Each Guarantor agrees that it will not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 hereof for the purposes of this Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) will forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Guarantee. The Guarantors will have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Guarantee.
Section 10.02        
Limitation on Guarantor Liability.
 
Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee and this Article 10 will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article 10, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
 
Section 10.03        
Execution and Delivery of Guarantee.
 
To evidence its Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such Guarantee substantially in the form included in will be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and that this Supplemental Indenture will be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by an Officer.
Exhibit C
 
Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01 will remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Guarantee.
 
If an Officer whose signature is on this Supplemental Indenture or on the Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note on which a Guarantee is endorsed, the Guarantee will be valid nevertheless.
 
The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, will constitute due delivery of the Guarantee set forth in this Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors.
 
In the event that the Company creates or acquires any new Subsidiaries subsequent to the date of this Supplemental Indenture, if required by Section 4.16 hereof, the Company will cause such Subsidiaries to execute supplemental indentures to this Supplemental Indenture and Guarantees in accordance with Section 4.16 hereof and this Article 10, to the extent applicable.
 
Section 10.04        
Guarantors May Consolidate, etc. on Certain Terms.
 
A Guarantor may not sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into, whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person, another Person other than the Company or another Guarantor, unless:
 
(a)           immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
 
(b)           either:
 
(1)           the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger, if other than the Guarantor or the Company, unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor under this Supplemental Indenture and its Guarantee pursuant to a supplemental indenture in the form of hereto; or
Exhibit C
 
(2)           the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Supplemental Indenture.
 
In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in the form of to the Trustee, of the Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Supplemental Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person will succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable hereunder. All the Guarantees so issued will in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Supplemental Indenture as the Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture as though all of such Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
Exhibit C
 
Except as set forth in Articles 5 hereof, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in any of the Notes will prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or will prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor. Upon any such consolidation or merger of any Guarantor with or into another Guarantor or with or into the Company, the Guarantee of the Guarantor that does not survive will no longer be of any force or effect.
 
Section 10.05        
Releases Following Sale of Assets.
 
In the event of (a) any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, including by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, to a Person that is not, either before or after giving effect to such transaction, the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, if the sale or other disposition complies with Section 4.10 herein; (b) any sale or other disposition of all of the Capital Stock of a Guarantor, including by way of dividend of the Capital Stock of such Guarantor to the stockholders of the Company, to a Person that is not, either before or after giving effect to such transaction, the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company if the sale or other disposition complies with Section  4.10 herein, or (c) if the Company designates any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Guarantor to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with Section 4.19 of this Supplemental Indenture, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Guarantee; that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof. Upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof, the Trustee will execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Guarantee.
provided
 
Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Guarantee will remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Supplemental Indenture as provided in this Article 10.
Section 11.01        
Satisfaction and Discharge.
 
This Supplemental Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to all Notes issued hereunder, when:
 
(1)           either:
 
(a)           all Notes that have been authenticated (except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(b)           all Notes that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Company or any Guarantor has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities, in such amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
 
(2)           no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit or will occur as a result of such deposit and such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any Guarantor is a party or by which the Company or any Guarantor is bound;
 
(3)           the Company or any Guarantor has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it under this Supplemental Indenture; and
 
(4)           the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Supplemental Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of the Notes at maturity or the redemption date, as the case may be.
 
In addition, the Company must deliver an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied.
 
Section 12.01        
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
 
If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA Section 318(c), the imposed duties will control.
Section 12.02        
Notices.
 
Any notice or communication by the Company, any Guarantor or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address.
 
If to the Company and/or any Guarantor:
 
Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: Treasurer
 
With a copy to:
 
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100 Chicago, Illinois 60606 Telecopier No.: (312) 407-0411 Attention: Brian W. Duwe
 
If to the Trustee:
 
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. 700 S. Flower Street, Suite 500 Los Angeles, CA 90017 Telecopier No.:  (213) 630-6298 Attention:  Corporate Trust Administration
 
The Company, any Guarantor or the Trustee, by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
Any notice or communication to a Holder will be mailed by first class mail postage prepaid, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication will also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA Section 313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it will not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
 
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it will mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
 
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon facsimile transmission of written instructions or directions pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture, it being understood that originals of such shall be provided to the Trustee in a timely manner, and such originally executed instructions and/or directions shall be signed by an authorized Officer of the Company.
 
Section 12.03        
Communication by Holders of Notes with Other Holders of Notes.
 
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else will have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
 
Section 12.04        
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Supplemental Indenture, the Company will furnish to the Trustee:
 
(a)           an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which will include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Supplemental Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and
 
(b)           except with respect to the initial issuance of the Notes, an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which will include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied.
 
Section 12.05        
Statements Required in Certificate.
 
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Supplemental Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA Section 314(a)(4)) will comply with the provisions of TIA Section 314(e) and will include:
 
(a)           a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
(b)           a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(c)           a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and
 
(d)           a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied.
 
Section 12.06        
Rules by Trustee and Agents.
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
 
Section 12.07        
Calculation of Foreign Currency Amounts.
 
The calculation of the U.S. dollar equivalent amount for any amount denominated in a foreign currency will be the noon buying rate in the City of New York as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date on which such determination is required to be made or, if such day is not a day on which such rate is published, the rate most recently published prior to such day.
 
Section 12.08        
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders.
 
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company or such Guarantor under the Notes, the Guarantees, this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes and the Guarantees. The waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws.
 
Section 12.09        
Governing Law; Waiver of Jury Trial.
 
THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, THE NOTES AND THE GUARANTEES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
 
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS  SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
Section 12.10        
Force Majeure.
 
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
Section 12.11        
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
 
This Supplemental Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 12.12        
Successors.
 
All agreements of the Company in this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes will bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Supplemental Indenture will bind its successors.
 
Section 12.13        
Severability.
 
In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes will be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 12.14        
Counterpart Originals.
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy will be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
Section 12.15        
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc.
 
The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Supplemental Indenture and will in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
Dated as of March 27, 2006
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
CUSIP/CINS 058498AL0
 
 
promises to pay to                                                                                                                                                                           ;                
 
or registered assigns,
 
the principal sum of                                                                                                                                                                           &nb sp;           
 
Dollars on March 15, 2018.
 
Interest Payment Dates:  March 15 and September 15
 
Record Dates:  March 1 and September 1
 
Dated: March 27, 2006
 
 
Date of Authentication: March 27, 2006
 
This is one of the Global Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Supplemental Indenture:
 
Dated: March 27, 2006
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. as Trustee
 
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Supplemental Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
% per annum from the date hereof until maturity. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ""). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest will accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date will be September 15, 2006. The Company will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
1.  . Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the ""), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 6
INTEREST
Company
5
/
8
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided
further
 
2.  . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the March 1 or September 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Supplemental Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; that all payments of principal, premium and interest with respect to Notes the Holders of which have given wire transfer instructions to the Trustee will be required to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof. Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
METHOD OF PAYMENT
provided
 
3.  . Initially, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. the Trustee under the Supplemental Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR
 
4.  . This Note is one of a duly authenticated series of securities of the Company issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture (the ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), dated as of February 2, 2006, among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Supplemental Indenture and those made part of the Supplemental Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Supplemental Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Base
INDENTURE
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Indenture, the provisions of this Note will govern and be controlling, and to the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling. The Company will be entitled to issue Additional Notes pursuant to Section 2.14 of the Supplemental Indenture.
 
5.  .
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION
 
(a)  Except as set forth in subparagraph (b) and (c) of this Paragraph 5, the Company will not have the option to redeem the Notes prior to March 15, 2011. Thereafter, the Company will have the option to redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices, expressed as percentages of principal amount, set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes redeemed to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on March 15 of the years indicated below:
 
 
(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph 5, at any time prior to March 15, 2009, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem, in whole or in part, up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes, including Additional Notes of the same class, if any, issued under the Supplemental Indenture, at a redemption price of par plus the stated interest rate, or 106.625% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date with the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings; that at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, including Additional Notes of the same class, if any, issued under the Supplemental Indenture, remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption, excluding Notes held by the Company and its Subsidiaries; and the redemption occurs within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Equity Offering.
provided
 
(c)  At any time prior to March 15, 2011, the Company, at its option, may redeem all or a part of the notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes redeemed plus the Applicable Premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption, subject to the rights of Holders of Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date.
 
6.  . The Company is not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.
MANDATORY REDEMPTION
 
7.  .
REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER
 
(a)  If a Change of Control occurs, and the Company does not redeem the Notes as described under clause (5) above within 60 days after the Change of Control, the Company will be required to make an offer (a "") to repurchase all or any part, equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, of each Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of purchase (the "
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control
"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control or, at the Company's option, prior to the consummation of such Change of Control but after the public announcement thereof, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Supplemental Indenture.
Payment
 
(b)  If the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary consummates any Asset Sales and the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $50 million, the Company will commence an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in the Supplemental Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds (an "") pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Supplemental Indenture at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase and will be payable in cash. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Notes and other Indebtedness tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company (or such Subsidiary) may use those Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by the Supplemental Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other Indebtedness surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee will select the Notes and other Indebtedness to be purchased on a basis. Holders of Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase will receive an Asset Sale Offer from the Company prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Notes.
pari passu
pari passu
Asset Sale Offer
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pro rata
 
8.  . Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
NOTICE OF REDEMPTION
 
9.  . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. Notes may be transferred or exchanged as provided in the Supplemental Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Supplemental Indenture. The Company need not exchange or transfer any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE
 
10.  . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS
 
11.  . The Base Indenture may be amended as provided therein. Subject to certain exceptions, the Supplemental Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes, voting as a single class, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Supplemental
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Notes, voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Supplemental Indenture, the Guarantees or the Notes may be amended or supplemented (i) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; (ii) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes; (iii) to provide for the assumption of the Company's or Guarantor's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (iv) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Supplemental Indenture of any such Holder; (v) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Supplemental Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with the Supplemental Indenture or to allow any Guarantor to execute a supplemental indenture to the Supplemental Indenture and/or a Guarantee with respect to the Note; (vi) to conform the text of the Supplemental Indenture or the Notes to any provision of the Description of Notes to the extent that such provision in the Description of Notes was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of the Supplemental Indenture or the Notes; (vii) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee; (viii) to add Guarantees with respect to the Notes; (ix) to secure the Notes or (x) to release any Lien granted in favor of the Holders of the Notes pursuant to Section 4.09 of the Supplemental Indenture upon release of the Lien securing the underlying obligation that gave rise to such Lien.
 
12.  . An "" occurs if:  (i) default for a period of 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in the payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes; (iii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to comply with the provisions of Section 5.01 of the Supplemental Indenture; (iv) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 30 days after notice to the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Sections 4.07, 4.09, 4.10 or 4.15 of the Supplemental Indenture; (v) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails for 60 days after notice to comply with any of the other agreements in the Supplemental Indenture or the Notes; (vi) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries defaults under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity) (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than a Securitization Entity)) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of this Supplemental Indenture, if that default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of or premium, if any, or interest on such Indebtedness on or before the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a "") or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates without duplication $50 million or more or its foreign currency equivalent; (vii) the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries fails to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $50 million or its foreign currency equivalent, excluding amounts covered by insurance, which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; (viii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency occur with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries that are Restricted Subsidiaries or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law; or (ix) except as permitted by the Supplemental Indenture, any Guarantee will be held in any judicial proceeding
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
EVENT OF DEFAULT
Payment Default
to be unenforceable or invalid or will cease for any reason to be in full force and effect or any Guarantor, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, will deny or disaffirm its obligations under such Guarantor's Guarantee.
 
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, with respect to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or any group of Restricted Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of Bankruptcy Law, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Supplemental Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Supplemental Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest, except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Supplemental Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Supplemental Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
 
13.  . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY
 
14.  . A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, will not have any liability for any obligations of the Company or the Guarantors under the Notes, the Guarantees or the Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS
 
15.  . This Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
AUTHENTICATION
 
16.  . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
ABBREVIATIONS
 
17.  . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon
CUSIP NUMBERS
written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture and the Guarantees. Requests may be made to:
 
Ball Corporation 10 Longs Peak Drive Broomfield, Colorado 80021-2510 Telecopier No.: (303) 460-2691 Attention: Chief Financial Officer
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.15 of the Supplemental Indenture, check the box below:
 
  Section 4.10                                                                       Section 4.15
o
o
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.15 of the Supplemental Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $                      
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Supplemental Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Supplemental Indenture and subject to the provisions in the indenture (the ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, between Ball Corporation, (the ) and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""), as amended by the Supplemental Indenture (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, among the Company, the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and the Trustee, (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes (as defined in the Supplemental Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal and premium, and, to the extent permitted by law, interest, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Supplemental Indenture and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Guarantee and the Supplemental Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 10 of the Supplemental Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Supplemental Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and will be bound by such provisions and appoints the Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for such purpose.
Base Indenture
"Company"
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
(this ""), dated as of                      , 200    , among                          (the ""), a subsidiary of Ball Corporation (or its permitted successor), an Indiana corporation (the ""), the Company, the other Guarantors (as defined in the First Supplemental Indenture referred to herein) and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as trustee under the First Supplemental Indenture referred to below (the "").
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Supplemental Indenture
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Company
Trustee
 
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, as amended by a first supplemental indenture (the " " and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, among the Company, the Guarantors named therein and the Trustee, providing for the original issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $450 million of 6.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "");
Base Indenture
First
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Notes
 
WHEREAS, the First Supplemental Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary will execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary will unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the ""); and
Note Guarantee
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
 
1.             . Capitalized terms used herein without definition will have the meanings assigned to them in the First Supplemental Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
 
2.             . The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows:
Agreement to Guarantee
 
(a)           Along with all Guarantors named in the First Supplemental Indenture, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that:
 
(i)            the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
(ii)           in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors will be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately.
 
(b)           The obligations hereunder will be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the First Supplemental Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor.
 
(c)           The following is hereby waived:  diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever.
 
(d)           This Note Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the First Supplemental Indenture, and the Guaranteeing Subsidiary accepts all obligations of a Guarantor under the First Supplemental Indenture.
 
(e)           If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, will be reinstated in full force and effect.
 
(f)            The Guaranteeing Subsidiary will not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
 
(g)           As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the First Supplemental Indenture for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the First Supplemental Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) will forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee.
 
(h)           The Guarantors will have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
 
(i)            Pursuant to Section 10.02 of the First Supplemental Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after
giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 10 of the First Supplemental Indenture, this new Note Guarantee will be limited to the maximum amount permissible such that the obligations of such Guarantor under this Note Guarantee will not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
 
3.             . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantees will remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee.
Execution and Delivery
 
4.             .
Guaranteeing Subsidiary may Consolidate, etc. on Certain Terms
 
(a)           The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not sell or otherwise dispose of all substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person, other than the Company or another Guarantor unless:
 
(i)            immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
 
(ii)           either (A) subject to Sections 10.04 and 10.05 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger unconditionally assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, under the Notes, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; or (B) the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the First Supplemental Indenture, including without limitation, Section 4.10 thereof.
 
(b)           In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the First Supplemental Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person will succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable under the First Supplemental Indenture which theretofore will not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued will in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the First Supplemental Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the First Supplemental Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
 
(c)           Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 and Section 10.05 of Article 10 of the First Supplemental Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the First Supplemental Indenture or in any of the Notes will prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or will prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor.
5.             .
Releases
 
(a)           In the event of any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the capital stock of any Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) a Subsidiary of the Company, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Note Guarantee; that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Supplemental Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the First Supplemental Indenture. Upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the First Supplemental Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee will execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Note Guarantee.
provided
 
(b)           Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee will remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the First Supplemental Indenture as provided in Article 10 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
 
6.             . No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, any Note Guarantees, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the SEC that such a waiver is against public policy.
No Recourse Against Others
 
7.            
. THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
New York Law to Govern
 
8.             . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy will be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
9.             . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and will not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
10.           . The Trustee will not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
The Trustee
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.1
FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, is by and among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (""), Ball European Holdings, S.ar.l., a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg (""), the financial institutions signatory hereto in their capacity as Lenders (as defined below) under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent for the Lenders (""), with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers for the Term D Loans referenced herein.
Amendment
Company
European Holdco
Administrative Agent
 
WHEREAS, Company, European Holdco, certain subsidiaries of Company (together with Company and European Holdco, ""), certain financial institutions (the "") and Administrative Agent are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of October 13, 2005 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time, the ""), pursuant to which the Lenders have provided to Borrowers credit facilities and other financial accommodations; and
Borrowers
Lenders
Credit Agreement
 
WHEREAS, Company intends to effect an acquisition (the "") pursuant to which U.S. Can Corporation (""), following the Spin-Off (as defined in the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated February 14, 2006 (the "") by and among Company, a wholly-owned Subsidiary of Company (""), U.S. Can and the securityholders of U.S. Can party thereto) will be merged with and into Acquisition Co, with U.S. Can surviving (the ""; U.S. Can and each of its Domestic Subsidiaries that is a Material Subsidiary after giving effect to the U.S. Can Merger are sometimes referred to herein individually as a "" and collectively, as the ""); and
U.S. Can Acquisition
U.S. Can
U.S. Can Merger Agreement
Acquisition Co
U.S. Can Merger
U.S. Can Credit Party
U.S. Can Credit Parties
 
WHEREAS, Borrowers desire to create a new class of Term Loans to be referred to as the Term D Loans that are in all respects to the Term Loans and having terms and conditions substantially similar to those applicable to the existing Term Loan Facilities, all pursuant to of the Credit Agreement; and
pari passu
Section 2.9
 
WHEREAS, each Person that executes and delivers this Amendment as a Term D Lender will make Term D Loans to Company on the effective date of the Amendment, the proceeds of which will be used by Company, together with the net proceeds from an offering of senior unsecured notes of Company, (i) to reduce existing Multicurrency Revolving Loans and/or Canadian Revolving Loans under the Credit Agreement, (ii) to reduce existing indebtedness of U.S. Can and its subsidiaries in connection with the U.S. Can Acquisition, including funding the Debt Tender Offer (as defined below) and paying off all existing indebtedness under the Existing U.S. Can Credit Agreement (as defined below), (iii) to fund the purchase price in connection with Company's acquisition of certain North American plastic bottle container assets owned by Alcan Inc. (the "Alcan Acquisition") and (iv) to pay related fees and expenses of Company in connection with the U.S. Can Acquisition, the Alcan Acquisition and herewith (collectively, excluding the Alcan Acquisition, the ""); and
First Amendment Transaction
 
WHEREAS, Borrowers have requested that Administrative Agent and the Lenders amend the Credit Agreement in certain respects as set forth herein and the Lenders and Administrative Agent are agreeable to the same, subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
.  Terms capitalized herein and not otherwise defined herein are used with the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
1.    
Defined Terms
 
.  The Credit Agreement is, as of the First Amendment Effective Date, hereby amended as follows:
2.    
Amendments to Credit Agreement
 
(a)   .
Term D Loan Mechanics
 
(1)           of the Credit Agreement is amended by inserting the following new definitions in alphabetical order therein:
Section 1.1
 
"" means the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of March 27, 2006 by and among Company, European Holdco, the Lenders signatory thereto and Administrative Agent.
First Amendment
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the First Amendment.
First Amendment Effective Date
 
"" means, with respect to the principal payments on the Term D Loans for each date set forth below, the Dollar amount set forth opposite thereto, as reduced from time to time pursuant to :
Scheduled Term D Repayments
Sections 4.3 and 4.4
 
 
"" means, with respect to any Term D Lender, the principal amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on hereto or in any Assignment and Assumption Agreement under the caption "Amount of Term D Commitment", as such commitment may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to this Agreement, and "" means such commitments collectively, which commitments equal $500,000,000 in the aggregate as of the First Amendment Effective Date.
Term D Commitment
Schedule 1.1(a)
Term D Commitments
 
"" means any Lender which has a Term D Commitment or is owed a Term D Loan (or a portion thereof).
Term D Lender
 
"" and "" have the meanings assigned to those terms in .
Term D Loan
Term D Loans
Section 2.1(d)
 
"" means October 13, 2011.
Term D Loan Maturity Date
 
"" and "" have the meanings assigned to those terms in .
Term D Note
Term D Notes
Section 2.2(a)
 
(2)           of the Credit Agreement is further amended by amending and restating each of the following definitions to read as follows:
Section 1.1
 
"" means at any date, with respect to Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Term D Loans, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under the column Applicable Base Rate Margin for Multicurrency Revolving Loans and Term D Loans opposite the Rating Level as of such date:
Applicable Base Rate Margin
 
"" means at any date, with respect to Multicurrency Revolving Loans, Term A Loans, Term B Loans and Term D Loans, the applicable percentage set forth in the following table under the column Applicable Eurocurrency Margin for Multicurrency Revolving Loans, Term A Loans, Term B Loans and Term D Loans opposite the Rating Level on such date:
Applicable Eurocurrency Margin
 
 
"" and "" have the meanings assigned to those terms in the introduction to this Agreement and shall include any Person that becomes a "Lender" as contemplated by the First Amendment or and any Person that becomes a Lender in connection with the incurrence of an Additional Facility pursuant to .
Lender
Lenders
Section 12
Section 2.9
 
(3)           A new is hereby added to the Credit Agreement to read as follows:
Section 2.1(d)
 
(d)           .
Dollar Term Loans
 
.  Each Term D Lender, severally and for itself alone, hereby agrees, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth and those set forth in the First Amendment and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, to make a loan (each such loan, a "" and collectively, the "") to Company on the First Amendment Effective Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Term D Commitment of such Term D Lender.  The Term D Loans (i) shall be incurred by Company pursuant to a single drawing, which shall be on the First Amendment Effective Date, (ii) shall be denominated in Dollars and (iii) shall be made as Eurocurrency Loans with an initial Interest Period of one month and shall be maintained as Eurocurrency Loans, that except as permitted by Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, no incurrences of, or conversions into, Term D Loans maintained as Eurocurrency Loans with an Interest Period in excess of one month (with all such Interest Periods ending on the same day during such period) may be effected prior to the earlier of (1) the 60th day after the First Amendment Effective Date and (2) that date upon which Administrative Agent determines in its sole discretion (and notifies Company) that the primary syndication of the Term D Loans (and resultant additions of institutions as Lenders pursuant to ) has been completed.  Each Term D Lender's Term D Commitment shall expire immediately and without further action on the First Amendment Effective Date if the Term D Loans are not made on the First Amendment Effective Date.  No amount of a Term D Loan
Term D Loans
Term D Loan
Term D Loans
provided
Section 12.8(c)
which is repaid or prepaid by Company may be reborrowed hereunder.
 
(4)           to the Credit Agreement is amended by adding thereto the information set forth on attached to the First Amendment.
Schedule 1.1(a)
Schedule 1.1(a)
 
(5)           of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" at the end of clause (4) thereof and by adding the following new clause (6):
Section 2.2(a)
 
and (6) if Term D Loans, by a promissory note (each, a "" and, collectively, the "") duly executed and delivered by Company substantially in the form of hereto, with blanks appropriately completed in conformity herewith.
Term D Note
Term D Notes
Exhibit 2.2(a)(6)
 
(6)           A new is hereby added to the Credit Agreement to read as follows:
Section 4.4(h)
 
(h)           .  Company shall cause to be paid Scheduled Term D Repayments on the Term D Loans until the Term D Loans are paid in full in the amounts and at the times specified in the definition of Scheduled Term D Repayments to the extent that prepayments have not previously been applied to such Scheduled Term D Repayments (and such Scheduled Term D Repayments have not otherwise been reduced) pursuant to the terms hereof.
Scheduled Term D Repayments
 
(7)           The Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new in the form of attached to this First Amendment.
Exhibit 2.2(a)(6)
Exhibit 2.2(a)(6)
 
  of the Credit Agreement is amended (i) to provide that the Term D Loans advanced pursuant to the First Amendment shall not reduce the amount of Additional Term Loans or Additional Facilities permitted to be incurred pursuant to and (ii) adding the words "excluding the Term C Facility" immediately following the words "Term Loan with the then longest Weighted Average Life to Maturity".
.
(b)  
Refreshment of Accordion
Section 2.9
Section 2.9
 
  of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentences at the end of such section:
.
(c)  
Existing U.S. Can Letters of Credit
Section 2.10(j)
 
The letters of credit set forth under the caption "Letters of Credit Outstanding on the First Amendment Effective Date" on annexed to the First Amendment and made a part hereof were issued pursuant to the Existing U.S. Can Credit Agreement (as defined in the First Amendment) and remain outstanding as of the First Amendment Effective Date (the "").  Company, each Facing Agent and each of the Lenders hereby agree with respect to the Outstanding U.S. Can Letters of Credit that such Outstanding U.S. Can Letters of Credit, for all purposes under this Agreement shall be deemed to be Letters of Credit governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  Each Lender agrees to participate in each Outstanding U.S. Can Letter of Credit issued by any Facing Agent in an amount equal to its Multicurrency Revolver Pro Rata Share of the Stated Amount of such Outstanding U.S. Can Letter of Credit.
Schedule 2.10(j)
Outstanding U.S. Can Letters of Credit
  of the Credit Agreement is amended by deleting the word "and" immediately following "3.50:1.00" and replacing it with the word "or".
.
(d)  
Excess Cash Flow Conforming Grammatical Change
Section 4.4(f)
 
  of the Credit Agreement is amended by inserting the words "first three" immediately prior to the words "Fiscal Quarters" in the second line thereof.
.
(e)  
Clarification of Section 7.1(a)
Section 7.1(a)
 
  of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
.
(f)   
Leverage Ratio
Section 9.2
 
  Permit the Leverage Ratio for the Test Periods ending after March 27, 2006 and on or before the last day of the first Fiscal Quarter of the 2007 Fiscal Year (i.e. the Fiscal Quarter ending on or about March 31, 2007) to be greater than 4.00 to 1.00 or permit the Leverage Ratio for any other Test Period to be greater than 3.75 to 1.00.
9.2          .
Leverage Ratio
 
.  In order to induce Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Amendment, each of Company and European Holdco hereby represents and warrants to Administrative Agent and the Lenders, in each case after giving effect to this Amendment, as follows:
3.    
Representations and Warranties
 
Each of Company and European Holdco has the right, power and capacity and has been duly authorized and empowered by all requisite corporate or limited liability company and shareholder or member action to enter into, execute, deliver and perform this Amendment and all agreements, documents and instruments executed and delivered pursuant to this Amendment.
(a)  
 
This Amendment constitutes each of Company's and European Holdco's, legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it, except as enforcement thereof may be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law or otherwise).
(b)  
 
The representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects at and as of the First Amendment Effective Date as though made on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date (except to the extent expressly made as of a specified date, in which event such representation and warranty is true and correct in all material respects as of such specified date).
(c)  
 
Each of Company's and European Holdco's execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment do not and will not violate its articles or certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other Organizational Documents, any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, decree or award applicable to it or any contractual provision to which it is a party or to which it or any of its property is subject.
(d)  
 
No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing or registration with, any governmental authority or regulatory body (other than those which have been obtained and are in force and effect) is required in connection with the execution, delivery
(e)  
and performance by Company, European Holdco or any other Credit Party of this Amendment and all agreements, documents and instruments executed and delivered pursuant to this Amendment.
 
No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists under the Credit Agreement or would exist immediately after giving effect to this Amendment.
(f)   
 
. This Amendment shall become effective on the Business Day (the "") each of the following conditions precedent is satisfied:
4.    
Conditions to Effectiveness of Amendment
First Amendment Effective Date
 
Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from (A) Lenders constituting (i) the Required Lenders and (ii) each Term D Lender and (B) Company and European Holdco either (i) a counterpart of this Amendment signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Amendment) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Amendment.
.
(a)  
Execution and Delivery of Amendment
 
  Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate of a Responsible Officer of Company and European Holdco in the form of attached hereto.
.
(b)  
Execution and Delivery of Officer's Certificate
Exhibit 4(b)
 
 Administrative Agent shall have received a duly executed copy of the Reaffirmation Agreement in the form of attached hereto.
.
(c)  
Reaffirmation Agreement
Exhibit 4(c)
 
Company shall have duly executed and delivered to Administrative Agent, if requested, the Term D Notes payable to the order of each applicable Term D Lender in the amount of their respective Term D Commitments all of which shall be in full force and effect;
. 
(d)  
Term D Notes
 
(e)   .
Guaranties and Pledge Agreements
 
(1)   .  Each U.S. Can Credit Party shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered an Addition of New Guarantor to Subsidiary Guaranty in the form of  attached hereto,
Subsidiary Guaranty Supplements
Exhibit 4(e)(1)
 
(2)   .  Company shall have delivered an acknowledgement that the Capital Stock of Acquisition Co is pledged pursuant to the terms of the United States Pledge Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent and each U.S. Can Credit Party shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered an Addition of New Pledgor to United States Pledge Agreement substantially in the form of attached hereto (each, a ""),
United States Pledge Agreement Supplements
Exhibit 4(e)(2)
Pledge Agreement Supplement
 
(3)   .  Each Credit Party party to a Pledge Agreement Supplement shall have delivered to Administrative Agent:
Perfection of Pledge Agreement Collateral
(A)          all the certificated Pledged Securities referred to in such Pledge Agreement Supplement then owned, if any, by such Credit Party, together with executed and undated stock powers, in the case of capital stock constituting Pledged Securities and the Pledge Agreement Supplement and such other documents shall be in full force and effect,
 
(B)           proper financing statements (Form UCC-1 or such other financing statements or similar notices as shall be required by local law, if any) for filing under the UCC or other appropriate filing offices of each foreign and domestic jurisdiction as may be necessary or, in the opinion of Administrative Agent, desirable to perfect the security interests purported to be created by the Pledge Agreement Supplement,
 
(C)           copies of Requests for Information or Copies (Form UCC-11 or equivalent reports), listing all effective financing statements or similar notices that name Company or its Subsidiaries (by its actual name or any trade name, fictitious name or similar name), or any division or other operating unit thereof, as debtor and that are filed in the jurisdiction referred to in said clause (B) above, together with copies of such other financing statements (none of which shall cover the Collateral except to the extent evidencing Permitted Liens or for which Administrative Agent shall have received termination statements (Form UCC-3 or such other termination statements as shall be required by local law) for filing),
 
(D)          evidence of the completion of all other recordings and filings of, or with respect to, the Pledge Agreement Supplement with any foreign or domestic Governmental Authorities and all other actions as may be necessary or, in the reasonable opinion of Administrative Agent, desirable to perfect the security interests intended to be created by the Pledge Agreement Supplement, and
 
(E)           evidence that all other actions necessary, or in the reasonable opinion of Administrative Agent, desirable to perfect the security interests purported to be taken by the Pledge Agreement Supplement have been taken;
 
 Administrative Agent shall have received from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel to Company and the U.S. Can Credit Parties, an opinion addressed to Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders and dated the First Amendment Effective Date, which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent and which shall cover the matters set forth in attached hereto and such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated herein as Administrative Agent may reasonably request, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent;
.
(f)   
Opinion of Counsel
Exhibit 4.1(f)
 
  Administrative Agent shall have received from Company and each U.S. Can Credit Party, a certificate, dated the First Amendment Effective Date, signed by the secretary or any assistant secretary (or, if no secretary or assistant secretary exists, a Responsible Officer), of such Credit Party, in the form of attached hereto with appropriate insertions, as to the incumbency and signature of the officers of each such Credit Party executing any Loan Document (in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
.
(g)  
Secretary's Certificate
Exhibit 4.1(g)
Administrative Agent) and any certificate or other document or instrument to be delivered pursuant hereto or thereto by or on behalf of such Credit Party, together with evidence of the incumbency of such secretary or assistant secretary (or, if no secretary or assistant secretary exists, such Responsible Officer), and certifying as true and correct, attached copies of the Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate of Amalgamation or other equivalent document (certified as of recent date by the Secretary of State or other comparable authority where customary in such jurisdiction) and By-Laws (or other Organizational Documents) of such Credit Party and the resolutions of such Credit Party and, to the extent required, of the equity holders of such Credit Party, referred to in such certificate and all of the foregoing (including each such Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate of Amalgamation or other equivalent document and By-Laws (or other Organizational Documents)) shall be reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent;
 
 Administrative Agent shall have received a good standing certificate or certificate of status or comparable certificate of Company, and each U.S. Can Credit Party from the Secretary of State of its state or province of organization or such equivalent document issued by any foreign Governmental Authority if applicable and to the extent customary in such foreign jurisdiction;
.
(h)  
Good Standing
 
 On the First Amendment Effective Date, both before and after giving effect to the First Amendment Transaction, there shall be no facts, events or circumstances then existing and nothing shall have occurred which shall have come to the attention of any of the Lenders which (i) materially adversely affects the business, financial condition or operations of Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole since December 31, 2005 or (ii) constitutes a Company Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the U.S. Can Merger Agreement);
(i)    .
Adverse Change
 
All necessary governmental (domestic and foreign) and material third party approvals and/or consents in connection with the First Amendment Transaction and the transactions contemplated by the Documents shall have been obtained and remain in effect, and all applicable waiting periods shall have expired without any action being taken by any competent authority which restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the consummation of all or any part of the First Amendment Transaction or this Amendment.  Additionally, there shall not exist any judgment, order, injunction or other restraint issued or filed or a hearing seeking injunctive relief or other restraint pending or notified prohibiting or imposing material adverse conditions upon all or any part of the First Amendment Transaction or the making of the Term D Loans;
. 
(j)   
Approvals
 
  No action, suit or proceeding (including, without limitation, any inquiry or investigation) by any entity (private or governmental) shall be pending or, to the best knowledge of Borrowers, threatened against Company or any of its Subsidiaries or with respect to the Credit Agreement, or any documentation executed in connection therewith or the transactions contemplated thereby (including, without limitation, this Amendment), or the obligations being refinanced in connection with the consummation of the First Amendment Transaction or which Administrative Agent shall determine would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and no injunction or other restraining order shall remain effective or a hearing therefor remain pending or noticed with respect to the Credit Agreement, or any documentation executed in connection therewith or the transactions contemplated thereby
.
(k)  
Litigation
(including, without limitation, this Amendment), the effect of which would reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
 
 Company shall have paid (i) the Amendment Fee (as defined in Section 5) to Administrative Agent for distribution to the Consenting Lenders (as defined in Section 5), (ii) to Administrative Agent and the Lenders all reasonable costs, fees and expenses (including, without limitation, legal fees and expenses of Winston & Strawn LLP and the reasonable costs, fees and expenses referred to in ) payable to Administrative Agent or any other collateral agent or trustee acting for the benefit of the Lenders, as the case may be, and the Lenders to the extent then due and (iii) all fees due and payable pursuant to the Fee Letter dated February 14, 2006 among Company, Administrative Agent, the Joint Lead Arrangers for the Term D Loans and JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA;
.
(l)   
Fees
Section 6(a)
 
  On the First Amendment Effective Date, Administrative Agent shall have received evidence of insurance complying with the requirements of of the Credit Agreement for the business and properties of the U.S. Can Credit Parties and any of their Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries.
.
(m) 
Evidence of Insurance
Section 7.9
 
(n)  
Transaction Documents, Etc. 
 
(i)The structure and all terms of, and the documentation for, each component of the First Amendment Transaction shall be reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent, it being understood and agreed that the terms of the U.S. Can Merger Agreement are acceptable.  All conditions precedent to the consummation of the First Amendment Transaction as set forth in the documentation relating to each component thereof shall have been satisfied in all material respects, and not waived except with the consent (which will not be unreasonably withheld) of Administrative Agent.  Concurrently with the incurrence of the Term D Loans, Company shall have used the proceeds from such loans and, if desired by Company, senior unsecured notes of Company or its subsidiaries (to the extent permitted by the Credit Agreement) to consummate the First Amendment Transactions in all material respects in accordance with the documentation therefor and all applicable laws.
           
Consummation of First Amendment Transactions, Etc.
 
 
(ii)           .  Company shall have purchased not less than amajority of the outstanding principal amount of (1) those certain 10-7/8% Senior Secured Notes due 2010, issued by United States Can Company pursuant to that certain Indenture dated as of July 22, 2003 between U.S. Can, United States Can Company, USC May Verpackungen Holding Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee (the "") and (2) those certain 12-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due October 1, 2010 issued by United States Can Company pursuant to that certain Indenture dated October 4, 2000 among U.S. Can, United States Can Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee (the ""), in each case, pursuant to the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation dated February 16, 2006 (the "" and together with the other
Consummation of Debt Tender Offer
Secured Indenture
Subordinated Indenture
Debt Tender Offer
documents referenced therein, the "") at the prices set forth in the Debt Tender Offer Documents, as such Debt Tender Offer Documents may be amended in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent, and the Secured Indenture and the Subordinated Indenture shall each have been amended in a manner consistent with the forms of the supplemental indentures thereto included in the Debt Tender Offer Documents, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of such supplemental indentures shall have been satisfied or waived with the consent of Administrative Agent.
Debt Tender Documents
 
(iii)          .  On or prior to the First Amendment Effective Date, the total commitments under the Credit Agreement among U.S. Can, United States Can Company, the financial institutions party thereto and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as administrative agent dated as of June 21, 2004 (as amended, the "") shall have been terminated, all loans thereunder shall have been repaid in full, together with interest thereon, all letters of credit, if any, issued thereunder shall have been terminated or deemed to be Letters of Credit under the Credit Agreement pursuant to thereof (as amended hereby) and all other amounts owing pursuant to such agreements shall have been repaid in full and such agreement shall have been terminated on terms and conditions reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent.  The collateral agent thereunder shall have released all security interests and Liens granted to such collateral agent on the assets owned by U.S. Can and its Subsidiaries, in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent.
Termination of Existing U.S. Can Credit Agreement
Existing U.S. Can Credit Agreement
Section 2.10(j)
 
  Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received a solvency certificate, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent, from the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Company with respect to the solvency of Company, after giving effect to the First Amendment Transaction;
.
(o)  
Solvency Certificate
 
  Administrative Agent shall have received (i) a certificate by the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Company certifying that, on the First Amendment Effective Date, to the best of his knowledge, after giving effect to the U.S. Can Acquisition on a Pro Forma Basis for the period of four Fiscal Quarters ending with the Fiscal Quarter for which financial statements have most recently been delivered (or were required to be delivered) under of the Credit Agreement, (1) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default would exist under the Credit Agreement; and (2) there is at least $150,000,000 of Available Liquidity and attaching pro forma financial statements supporting such calculations and (ii) financial statements of the business or Person to be acquired, including income statements or statements of cash flows and, if available, balance sheet statements for at least the fiscal year or the four fiscal quarters then most recently ended.
.
(p)  
Evidence that the U.S. Can Acquisition is a "Permitted Acquisition"
Section 7.1
 
  Company shall have provided Administrative Agent with a Notice of Borrowing two (2) Business Days prior to the First Amendment Effective Date with respect to the borrowing of Term D Loans on the First Amendment Effective Date.
.
(q)  
Notice of Borrowing
 The representations and warranties contained in this Amendment, the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall each be true and correct in all material respects at and as of the First Amendment Effective Date as though made on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date (except to the extent such representations and warranties are expressly made as of a specified date in which event such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such specified date).
.
(r)  
Representations and Warranties
 
No Unmatured Event of Default or Event of Default under the Credit Agreement shall have occurred and be continuing.
.
(s)  
No Defaults
 
  In consideration of the execution of this Amendment by the Lenders, Company hereby agrees to pay on the First Amendment Effective Date to each Lender that executes this Amendment on or prior to  5:00 pm New York time on March 17, 2006 (each, a ""), a fee (collectively, the "") in an amount equal to 0.05% the sum of such Lender's Multicurrency Revolving Commitment such Lender's Canadian Revolving Commitment the outstanding Effective Amount of Term Loans owing to such Lender (prior to giving effect to this Amendment) .
.
5.    
Amendment Fee
Consenting Lender
Amendment Fee
multiplied by
plus
plus
 
. The parties hereto hereby further agree as follows:
6.    
Miscellaneous
 
 Company hereby agrees to pay all reasonable fees, costs and expenses of Administrative Agent incurred in connection with the negotiation, preparation and execution of this Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of Winston & Strawn LLP, counsel to Administrative Agent.
.
(a)  
Costs, Expenses and Taxes
 
  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to be an original and all of which counterparts, taken together, shall constitute but one and the same Amendment.
.
(b)  
Counterparts
 
 Headings used in this Amendment are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the construction of this Amendment.
.
(c)  
Headings
 
  This Amendment and the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby) constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
.
(d)  
Integration
 
 THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS AND DECISIONS OF SAID STATE, INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT EXCLUDING ALL OTHER CHOICE OF LAW AND CONFLICTS OF LAWS RULES.
.
(e)  
Governing Law
 
 This Amendment shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, Borrowers, Administrative Agent, the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns; , , that no Borrower may assign its rights or obligations hereunder or in
.
(f)   
Binding Effect
provided
however
connection herewith or any interest herein (voluntarily, by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the Lenders.
 
  The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that nothing contained in this Amendment in any manner or respect limits or terminates any of the provisions of the Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents other than as expressly set forth herein and further agree and acknowledge that the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby) and each of the other Loan Documents remain and continue in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.  Except to the extent expressly set forth herein, the execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any rights, power or remedy of the Lenders or Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document.  No delay on the part of any Lender or Administrative Agent in exercising any of their respective rights, remedies, powers and privileges under the Credit Agreement or any of the Loan Documents or partial or single exercise thereof, shall constitute a waiver thereof.  On and after the First Amendment Effective Date each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement," "hereunder," "hereof," "herein" or words of like import, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in the Loan Documents and all other documents delivered in connection with the Credit Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.  Company and European Holdco acknowledge and agree that this Amendment constitutes a "Loan Document" for purposes of the Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, of the Credit Agreement.  None of the terms and conditions of this Amendment may be changed, waived, modified or varied in any manner, whatsoever, except in accordance with of the Credit Agreement.
.
(g)  
Amendment; Waiver
Section 10.1
Section 12.1
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
New York, New York
                                         ,                     
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (""), hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the order of                                        (the "") at the office of Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch located at 90 Hudson Street, 5th Floor, Jersey City, New Jersey  07302, in Dollars and in immediately available funds on the Term D Loan Maturity Date (as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of                          (                    ) or, if less, the then unpaid principal amount of all Term D Loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement) made by the Lender to Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement referred to below, payable at such times and in such amounts as are specified in the Credit Agreement.  Borrower further agrees to pay interest in like money at such office on the unpaid principal amount hereof from time to time outstanding at the applicable interest rate per annum determined as provided in, and payable as specified in, and of the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Lender
Section 2.1(d)
Articles III
IV
 
This Note is one of the Term D Notes referred to in the Credit Agreement dated as of October 13, 2005 among Borrower, Ball European Holdings, S.ar.l., a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg (""), Ball Packaging Products Canada Corp., a company organized under the laws of the Province of Nova Scotia, each Other Subsidiary Borrower (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined)), the financial institutions from time to time party thereto, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian administrative agent and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent (in such capacity, ""), and is entitled to the benefits thereof and of the other Loan Documents (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined)), as amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of March      , 2006 (the "") among Borrower, European Holdco, the financial institutions party thereto as lenders and Administrative Agent (such agreement, as so amended by the First Amendment, and as further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "").  As provided in the Credit Agreement, this Note is subject to optional and mandatory prepayment prior to the Term D Loan Maturity Date, in whole or in part.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with their defined meanings unless otherwise defined herein.
European Holdco
Administrative Agent
First Amendment
Credit Agreement
 
Upon the occurrence of any one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Credit Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note may become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable, all as provided therein.
 
All parties now and hereafter liable with respect to this Note, whether maker, principal, surety, guarantor, endorser or otherwise, hereby waive presentment, demand, protest and all other notices of any kind.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS AND DECISIONS OF SAID STATE, INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT EXCLUDING ALL OTHER CHOICE OF LAW AND CONFLICTS OF LAWS RULES.
 
 
EXHIBIT 4(b)
 
CERTIFICATE OF OFFICER
 
I, the undersigned, the Vice President and Treasurer of Ball Corporation (""), and the Managers of Ball European Holdings, S.ar.l. (""), in accordance with of that certain First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of May 9, 2005 (the "") among Company, European Holdco, the financial institutions signatory thereto as Lenders and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders, do hereby certify on behalf of Company and European Holdco, as applicable, the following:
Company
European Holdco
Section 4(b)
Agreement
 
The representations and warranties set forth in of the Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof except to the extent such representations and warranties are expressly made as of a specified date in which event such representations and warranties were true and correct in all material respects as of such specified date;
1.
                                      
Section 3
 
No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing after giving effect to the Agreement; and
2.
                                      
 
The conditions of of the Agreement have been fully satisfied.
3.
                                      
Section 4
 
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has duly executed and delivered on behalf of Company and European Holdco, as applicable, this Certificate of Officer on this 27 day of March, 2006.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 4(c)
 
REAFFIRMATION AGREEMENT
 
Each of the undersigned acknowledges receipt of a copy of the First Amendment to Credit Agreement (the ""; capitalized terms used herein shall, unless otherwise defined herein, have the meanings provided in or incorporated by reference into the Amendment) dated as of March       , 2006, by and among Ball Corporation (""), Ball European Holdings, S.ar.l. (""), the financial institutions signatory thereto as Lenders and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders, consents to such Amendment and each of the transactions referenced in the Amendment and hereby reaffirms its obligations under any Guaranty to which it is a party, including its guaranty of obligations in respect of the Loans.
Amendment
Company
European Holdco
 
Dated as of March      , 2006.
 
 
ADDITION OF NEW GUARANTORS TO SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY (this ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, amending that certain Subsidiary Guaranty, dated as of October 13, 2005 (as so amended by this Instrument and as may be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), by the Guarantors (the "") party thereto in favor of the Creditors.
Instrument
Agreement
Guarantors
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2005, among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (""), Ball European Holdings, S.ar.l., a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg (""), Ball Packaging Products Canada Corp., a company organized under the laws of the Province of Nova Scotia, each Other Subsidiary Borrower (as defined therein), the financial institutions from time to time party thereto, including Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, in their capacities as lenders thereunder (collectively, the "," and each individually, a ""), The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian administrative agent and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent ("") for the Lenders, providing for the making of Loans and the issuance of, and participation in, Letters of Credit as contemplated therein, as amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of March      , 2006 (the ""), among Company, European Holdco, the financial institutions party thereto as lenders and Administrative Agent (as used herein, the term "" means the Credit Agreement described above in this paragraph, as amended by the First Amendment and as the same may be further amended, modified, extended, renewed, replaced, restated or supplemented from time to time, and including any agreement extending the maturity of, or restructuring all or any portion of the Indebtedness under such agreement or any successor agreements).
Company
European Holdco
Lenders
Lender
Administrative Agent
First Amendment
Credit Agreement
 
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement or, if not therein defined, in the Credit Agreement.
 
The Guarantors have entered into the Agreement in order to induce the Lenders to extend credit pursuant to the Credit Agreement and to induce the Other Creditors to extend Interest Rate Protection or Other Hedging Agreements.  Pursuant to of the Agreement, each of the undersigned is required to enter into the Agreement as a Guarantor.  of the Agreement provides that additional parties may become Guarantors under the Agreement by execution and delivery of an instrument substantially in the form of this Instrument.  Each of the undersigned (each, a "") is executing this Instrument in accordance with the requirements of the Credit Agreement to become a Guarantor under the Agreement in order to induce the Lenders to extend and continue the extension of credit pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
Section 25
Section 25
New Party
 
Accordingly, each New Party agrees as follows:
 
SECTION 1.    In accordance with the Agreement, each New Party by its signature below becomes a party to the Agreement as of the date hereof with the same force and effect as if originally named therein as a party and each New Party hereby (a) agrees to all the terms and warrants that the representations and warranties made by it as a party thereunder are true and
 
correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof.  Each reference to a "Guarantor" in the Agreement shall be deemed to include each New Party.  The Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
SECTION 2.    Each New Party represents and warrants to the Agent and the Creditors that this Instrument has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws generally affecting creditors' rights and by equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law).
 
SECTION 3.    This Instrument may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  This Instrument shall become effective when the Agent shall have received a counterpart of this Instrument that bears the signature of each New Party.
 
SECTION 4.    Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
 
SECTION 5.   THIS INSTRUMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS AND DECISIONS OF SAID STATE, INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT EXCLUDING ALL OTHER CHOICE OF LAW AND CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES.
 
SECTION 6.    All communications and notices hereunder shall be in writing and given as provided in the Agreement.  All communications and notices hereunder to each New Party shall be given to it at the address set forth in of the Agreement.
Section 19
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each New Party has duly executed this Addition of New Guarantors to Subsidiary Guaranty as of the day and year first above written.
 
ADDITION OF NEW PLEDGORS TO PLEDGE AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of March 27, 2006, amending that certain United States Pledge Agreement dated as of October 13, 2005 (as so amended by this Instrument and as may be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") by and among the Pledgors (the "") party thereto and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, in its capacity as Collateral Agent for the Secured Creditors (in such capacity, the "").
Instrument
Agreement
Pledgors
Pledgee
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2005, among Ball Corporation, an Indiana corporation (""), Ball European Holdings, S.ar.l., a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg (""), Ball Packaging Products Canada Corp., a company organized under the laws of the Province of Nova Scotia, each Other Subsidiary Borrower (as defined therein), the financial institutions from time to time party thereto, including Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, in their capacities as lenders thereunder (collectively, the "," and each individually, a ""), The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian administrative agent and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent ("") for the Lenders, as amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of March      , 2006 (the ""), among Company, European Holdco, the financial institutions party thereto as lenders and Administrative Agent (such agreement, as amended by the First Amendment, and as further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "").
Company
European Holdco
Lenders
Lender
Administrative Agent
First Amendment
Credit Agreement
 
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement or, if not therein defined, in the Credit Agreement.
 
The Pledgors have entered into the Agreement in order to induce the Lenders to extend credit pursuant to the Credit Agreement and to induce the Other Creditors to extend Interest Rate Protection or Other Hedging Agreements.  Pursuant to of the Agreement, each of the undersigned is required to enter into the Agreement as a Pledgor.  of the Agreement provides that additional parties may become Pledgors under the Agreement by execution and delivery of an instrument in the form of this Instrument.  Each of the undersigned (each, a "") is executing this Instrument in accordance with the requirements of the Credit Agreement to become a Pledgor under the Agreement in order to induce the Lenders to extend and continue the extension of credit pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
Section 23
Section 23
New Party
 
Accordingly, each New Party agrees as follows:
 
SECTION 1.    In accordance with the Agreement, each New Party by its signature below becomes a party to the Agreement as of the date hereof with the same force and effect as if originally named therein as a party and each New Party hereby (a) agrees to all the terms and warrants that the representations and warranties made by it as a party thereunder are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof.  Each reference to a "Pledgor" in the Agreement shall be deemed to include each New Party.  The Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
SECTION 2.    Each New Party hereby confirms the grant to Pledgee set forth in the Agreement of, and, does hereby grant to the Pledgee, a security interest in all of each of the New Party's right, title and interest in and to all Collateral to secure the Obligations, in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired.  Each New Party represents and warrants that the attached Supplement to Annex A accurately and completely sets forth all additional information required pursuant to the Agreement and hereby agrees that such Supplement shall constitute part of the Annex A to the Agreement.
 
SECTION 3.    Each New Party represents and warrants to the Pledgee and the Secured Creditors that this Instrument has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws generally affecting creditors' rights and by equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law).
 
SECTION 4.    This Instrument shall become effective when the Pledgee shall have received a counterpart of this Instrument that bears the signatures of each New Party.
 
SECTION 5.    Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
 
SECTION 6.   THIS INSTRUMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS AND DECISIONS OF SAID STATE, INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT EXCLUDING ALL OTHER CHOICE OF LAW AND CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES.
 
SECTION 7.    All communications and notices hereunder shall be in writing and given as provided in the Agreement.  All communications and notices hereunder to each New Party shall be given to it at the address set forth in of the Agreement.
Section 19
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each New Party has duly executed this Addition of New Pledgors to Pledge Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
Pledged Securities
 
 
 
 


