FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20070129131008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 5.02.
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 23, 2007, the Board of Directors of Ball Corporation (the Company), acting by and through its Human Resources Committee, amended the Ball Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the Plan) effective January 1, 2007. One of the amendments provides that Participants with accrued benefits as of December 31, 2006, may make a one time election in 2007 of the form of payment under which the Participant wishes to receive a benefit, generally annual payments or a lump sum payment. Participants accruing benefits after December 31, 2006, will receive benefits only in the form of a lump sum payment. Additionally, the Plan was amended to provide that in determining the lump sum payment the Plan would use the same assumptions that exist in the Ball Corporation Pension Plan for Salaried Employees and the Ball Corporation Pension Plan as it Applies to Certain Salaried Employees of Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp., (Pension Plans) except that the interest rate shall be equal to eighty percent (80%) of the interest rate used to determine lump sum benefits under those Pension Plans.
On January 23, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company, acting by and through its Human Resources Committee, also amended the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan effective January 1, 2007, to slightly reduce the maximum target percentage that must be achieved in measuring return on average invested capital for the future performance cycles.
The above plans cover the executive officers and certain key employees of the Company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: 
January 29, 2007


