FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20091123163611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
(c)       Appointment of Officers
On November 18, 2009, the Company announced the appointment of John A. Hayes as President and Chief Operating Officer of Ball Corporation; Raymond J. Seabrook as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Global Packaging and Scott C. Morrison as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, effective January 1, 2010.
Additionally, on November 23, 2009, the Company announced the appointment of Shawn M. Barker as Vice President and Controller and Douglas K. Bradford as Vice President, Financial Reporting and Tax, effective January 1, 2010.
Mr. Hayes, 43, has been employed by Ball since 1999, when he joined the Company as Senior Director, Corporate Planning and Development.  He was Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Development and Marketing in 2005 when he was named Executive Vice President of  Ball Packaging Europe.  He became President of the European operations in 2006.  In 2008, Mr. Hayes became Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
Mr. Hayes annual base salary will be $725,000.  His annual incentive compensation and long term cash incentive plan compensation will be 85% and 30% of his base salary, respectively, based on Company performance.  The Company previously entered into a severance benefit agreement and a change-in-control agreement with Mr. Hayes, which contain provisions that require the Company to provide post-termination payments or benefits in the event of termination of employment without cause or termination following a change-in-control of the Company.  The portion of Mr. Hayes severance benefit under his severance agreement that is based upon his annual base salary and annual incentive compensation will increase from 1.5 to 2 times the sum of his annual base salary plus his target annual incentive compensation.
Mr. Seabrook, 58, has been with the Company since 1988 when he joined the Company as part of the formation of Ball Packaging Products, Canada.  He became Corporate Vice President and Treasurer in 1992 and has served as Chief Financial Officer since April, 2000.  Mr. Seabrook has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2006.
Mr. Seabrooks annual base salary will be $600,000.  His annual incentive compensation and long term cash incentive plan compensation will be 75% and 25% of his base salary, respectively, based on Company performance.  The terms of Mr. Seabrooks existing severance benefit agreement and change-in-control agreement with the Company are not being amended.
Mr. Morrison, 47, joined Ball in 2000 after 16 years in the banking industry as Treasurer and has been Vice President and Treasurer since 2002.
 
Mr. Morrisons annual base salary will be $400,000.  His annual incentive compensation and long term cash incentive plan compensation will be 60% and 25% of his base salary, respectively, based on Company performance.  The Company previously entered into a severance benefit agreement and a change-in-control agreement with Mr. Morrison, the terms of which are similar to those of the agreements with Mr. Hayes and other officers of the Company.  The portion of Mr. Morrisons severance benefit under his severance agreement that is based upon his annual base salary and annual incentive compensation will increase from 1.25 to 1.5 times the sum of his annual base salary plus his target annual incentive compensation.
Mr. Barker, 42, first joined the Company in 1996 as Manager, Financial Reporting.  He left the Company in 1998 when the Company headquarters was relocated from Indiana to Colorado and then rejoined the Company in 2003 as Manager, Planning and Analysis.  Mr. Barker has served as Vice President, Operations Accounting since 2006.
Mr. Barkers base salary will be $250,000.  His annual incentive compensation and long term cash incentive plan compensation will be 50% and 20% of his base salary, respectively, based on Company performance.  The Company will enter into a severance benefit agreement and change-in-control agreement with Mr. Barker, the terms of which will be substantially similar to the agreements with Mr. Hayes and other officers of the Company.  Mr. Barkers severance benefit under the severance benefit agreement will be 1.25 times the sum of his annual base salary plus his target annual incentive compensation; plus a payout equal to his pension plan benefit and any supplemental executive retirement plan benefit to which he would have been entitled had he remained with the Company for an additional eighteen (18) months, adjusted pursuant to a formula provided in the severance benefit agreement and the plans.
Mr. Bradford, 52, came to the Company from Price Waterhouse, where he was a senior tax manager, in 1989 as Director, Tax Administration and later was appointed Senior Director Tax Administration.  He later served as Assistant Controller, Controller and Vice President and Controller.  Mr. Bradfords compensation package and agreements with the Company will remain the same.
The Companys press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Hayes, Mr. Seabrook and Mr. Morrison is included with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
(d)           Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           November 23, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Hayes Named President of Ball Corporation; Seabrook
Named COO, Global Packaging Operations and Morrison
Named SVP and CFO
BROOMFIELD, Colo., Nov. 18, 2009Ball Corporation [NYSE:BLL] today announced promotions and senior management changes that will become effective at the beginning of 2010, including that John A. Hayes will become president of Ball at that time. Hayes, who will remain chief operating officer for the corporation, also will join Balls board of directors at the beginning of the year.
Raymond J. Seabrook will become executive vice president and chief operating officer, global packaging operations, reporting to Hayes. Scott C. Morrison will become senior vice president and chief financial officer and will remain treasurer. Morrison and Hayes will report to R. David Hoover, chairman and chief executive officer of Ball Corporation.
We are very pleased to have John Hayes become president of Ball Corporation and join our board, said Hoover, who has been president of Ball since January 2000. He has been a major contributor to our success since joining the company in 1999. Over the past two years he has demonstrated exceptional leadership skills as executive vice president and chief operating officer.
Hayes began his career with Ball as senior director, corporate planning and development.  He was vice president, corporate strategy, development and marketing, in 2005 when he was named executive vice president of Ball Packaging Europe. He was president of Ball Packaging Europe before being named to his current position at the beginning of 2008.
 
- more - -
 
 
 
 
Ball Corporation  2
Seabrook joined Ball Corporation in 1988 with the formation of Ball Packaging Products, Canada. He became corporate vice president and treasurer in 1992 and chief financial officer in 2000. He has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2006.
Ray Seabrook will bring knowledge and experience gained from 25 years in the packaging industry and more than two decades with Ball Corporation to the new position of chief operating officer, global packaging, Hayes said. Packaging products make up more than 90 percent of Ball Corporations sales, and we look forward to having a strong, disciplined leader in Ray to lead those businesses.
Morrison joined Ball in 2000 as treasurer after 16 years in the banking industry. He became vice president and treasurer in 2002.
Scott Morrison has been instrumental in crafting and executing the strategy that has led to the strong financial position we have today, Hoover said. Scotts experience in effectively managing financial risk has played a key role in steering Ball through this time of unprecedented financial volatility, and his deep knowledge of our company and our financial strategy make him well-suited to succeed Ray Seabrook as CFO.
Ball Corporation is a supplier of high-quality metal and plastic packaging for beverage, food and household products customers, and of aerospace and other technologies and services, primarily for the U.S. government. Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries employ more than 14,500 people worldwide and reported 2008 sales of approximately $7.6 billion.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking" statements concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as expects, anticipates, estimates and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Key risks and uncertainties are summarized in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99.2 in our Form 10-K, which are available at our Web site and at Factors that might affect our packaging segments include fluctuation in product demand and preferences; availability and cost of raw materials; competitive packaging availability, pricing and substitution; changes in climate and weather; crop yields; competitive activity; failure to achieve anticipated productivity improvements or production cost reductions; mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging laws; changes in major customer or supplier contracts or loss of a major customer or supplier; and changes in foreign exchange rates or tax rates. Factors that might affect our aerospace segment include: funding, authorization, availability and returns of government and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts. Factors that might affect the company as a whole include those listed plus: accounting changes; changes in senior management; the current global recession and its effects on liquidity, credit risk, asset values and the economy; successful or unsuccessfulacquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; integration of recently acquired businesses; regulatory action or laws including tax, environmental, health and workplace safety, including in respect of climate change, or chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; governmental investigations; technological developments and innovations; goodwill impairment; antitrust, patent and other litigation; strikes; labor cost changes; rates of return projected and earned on assets of the company's defined benefit retirement plans; pension changes; reduced cash flow; interest rates affecting our debt; and changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits or other effects
www.sec.gov
.
 
.
 
# # #
 
 
 
 


