FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20090810134629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On August 10, 2009, Ball Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Michael L. Hranicka has been named executive vice president and chief operating officer for the Company's North American metal beverage packaging operations. Initially he will report to John R. Friedery, one of the Company's named executive officers, who has announced his intention to step down as Senior Vice President of the Company and President, Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas and Asia, early in 2010. Mr. Friedery will remain with the Company until such time to help ensure a smooth transition.
 
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Ball Names Michael Hranicka Executive VP and
COO, Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas
 
BROOMFIELD, Colo., Aug. 10, 2009
Ball Corporation [NYSE: BLL] announced today that Michael L. Hranicka has been named executive vice president and chief operating officer for the company's North American metal beverage packaging operations.
 
Hranicka joined Ball in 2005 and has been senior vice president, sales and marketing, for Ball's metal food and household products packaging, Americas, business since 2007. Initially he will report to John R. Friedery who has announced his intention to leave the company early in 2010, after which Hranicka will report to John A. Hayes, executive vice president and chief operating officer of Ball Corporation.
 
"Michael Hranicka has a strong commercial focus and excellent leadership skills," Hayes said. "His emphasis on being truly close to our customers in all of the ways we interact with them, combined with his disciplined, systematic approach to processes, will serve him and the corporation well in his new position. He and John Friedery will work closely on a smooth transition over the coming months."
 
Ball Corporation is a supplier of high-quality metal and plastic packaging for beverage, food and household products customers, and of aerospace and other technologies and services, primarily for the U.S. government. Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries employ more than 14,000 people worldwide and reported 2008 sales of approximately $7.6 billion. For the latest Ball news and for other company information, please visit www.ball.com.
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains "forward-looking" statements concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "estimates" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Key risks and uncertainties are summarized in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99.2 in our Form 10-K, which are available at our Web site and at . Factors that might affect our packaging segments include fluctuation in product demand and preferences; availability and cost of raw materials; competitive packaging availability, pricing and substitution; changes in climate and weather; crop yields; competitive activity; failure to achieve anticipated productivity improvements or production cost reductions, including our beverage can end project; mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging laws; changes in major customer or supplier contracts or loss of a major customer or supplier; and changes in foreign exchange rates, tax rates and activities of foreign subsidiaries. Factors that might affect our aerospace segment include: funding, authorization, availability and returns of government and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts. Factors that might affect the company as a whole include those listed plus: accounting changes; changes in senior management; the current global credit squeeze and its effects on liquidity, credit risk, asset values and the economy; successful or unsuccessfulacquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; integration of recently acquired businesses; regulatory action or laws including tax, environmental, health and workplace safety, including in respect of chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; governmental investigations; technological developments and innovations; goodwill impairment; antitrust, patent and other litigation; strikes; labor cost changes; rates of return projected and earned on assets of the company's defined benefit retirement plans; pension changes; reduced cash flow; interest rates affecting our debt; and changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits or other effects.
www.sec.gov
 


