FILE:BLL/BLL-8K-20120126092457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On January 26, 2012, Ball Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full year earnings for 2011, which results are set forth in the press release dated January 26, 2012, and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Earnings information regarding the fourth quarter and full year 2011, as well as information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures, are set forth in the attached press release.
The information in this Report shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On January 25, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company amended the Bylaws to add a Majority VoteDirector Resignation provision.  Exhibit 3(ii) attached hereto provides the text of the new provision.
On January 25, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase by the Company of up to a total of 30 million shares of its common stock and authorized a nearly 43 percent increase in the Companys quarterly cash dividend to 10 cents per share. This repurchase authorization replaces all previous authorizations. The repurchase authorization and dividend increase are described in the press release dated January 25, 2012, and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
(d)           Exhibits.
The following are furnished as exhibits to this report:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           January 26, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3(ii)
The following provision is added as Section C.  Director Resignation Policy, to Article Three.  All subsequent Sections are reordered appropriately.
Section C.  Director Resignation Policy.
In an uncontested election of directors of the corporation, any nominee who receives a greater number of votes withheld from his or her election than votes for his or her election will, within ten (10) days following the certification of the shareholder vote, tender his or her written resignation to the chairman of the board for consideration by the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee (the Committee).  As used in this Section C, an uncontested election of directors of the corporation is an election in which the only nominees are persons nominated by the board of directors of the corporation.
The Committee will consider such tendered resignation and, within sixty (60) days following the certification of the shareholder vote, will make a recommendation to the board of directors concerning the acceptance or rejection of such resignation.  In determining its recommendation to the board, the Committee will consider all factors deemed relevant by the members of the Committee.
The Committee also will consider a range of possible alternatives concerning the directors tendered resignation as the members of the Committee deem appropriate, including, without limitation, acceptance of the resignation, rejection of the resignation or rejection of the resignation coupled with a commitment to seek to address and cure the underlying reasons reasonably believed by the Committee to have substantially resulted in the withheld votes.
The board of directors of the corporation will take formal action on the Committees recommendation no later than ninety-five (95) days following the certification of the shareholder vote.  In considering the Committees recommendation, the board will consider the information, factors and alternatives considered by the Committee and such additional information, factors and alternatives as the board deems relevant.
Following the boards decision on the Committees recommendation, the corporation, within four (4) business days after such decision is made, will publicly disclose, in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the boards decision, together with an explanation of the process by which the decision was made and, if applicable, the boards reason or reasons for its decision.
No director who, in accordance with this Section C, is required to tender his or her resignation, shall participate in the Committees deliberations or recommendation, or in the boards deliberations or determination, with respect to accepting or rejecting his or her resignation as a director.  If a majority of the members of the Committee received a greater number of votes withheld from their election than votes for their election, then the independent directors then serving on the board of directors who received a greater number of votes for their election than votes withheld from their election, and the directors, if any, who were not standing for election, will appoint an ad hoc board committee from among themselves (the Ad Hoc Committee), consisting of such number of directors as they may determine to be appropriate, solely for the purpose of considering and making a recommendation to the board with respect to the tendered resignations.  The Ad Hoc Committee shall serve in place of the Committee and perform the Committees duties for purposes of this Section C.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Ad Hoc Committee would have been created but fewer than three directors would be eligible to serve on it, the entire board of directors (other than the director whose resignation is being considered) will make the determination to accept or reject the tendered resignation without any recommendation from the Committee and without the creation of an Ad Hoc Committee.
This director resignation policy set forth in this Section C, as it may from time to time be amended, will be summarized or included in the corporations proxy statement for each meeting of shareholders (annual or special) at which directors are to be elected.

10
Exhibit 99.1
Ball Reports Improved 2011 Results, Expects
Further Growth in 2012
BROOMFIELD, Colo., Jan. 26, 2012Ball Corporation [NYSE: BLL] today reported full-year 2011 net earnings attributable to the company of $444.0 million, or $2.63 per diluted share, on sales of $8.6 billion, compared to $468.0 million or $2.55 per diluted share, on sales of $7.6 billion in 2010. On a comparable basis, Balls full-year 2011 results were net earnings of $459.6 million, or $2.73 per diluted share, compared to $433.0 million, or $2.36 per diluted share, in 2010 which included a fourth quarter tax benefit of 7 cents per diluted share.
,
Ball Corporations 2011 full-year comparable earnings per share increased more than 15 percent compared to 2010, in an economic environment that remains challenging across much of the world, said John A. Hayes, president and chief executive officer. Our improved 2011 performance was the result of maximizing value in our existing businesses, expanding into new products and capabilities, broadening our geographic reach, aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets and leveraging our technological expertise  all key strategies in our Drive for 10 vision to achieve continued long-term growth.
Fourth quarter 2011 net earnings attributable to Ball Corporation were $77.5 millionor 47 cents per diluted share,on sales of $2.1 billion, compared to $92.2 million, or 52 cents per diluted share, on sales of $2.0 billion, in the fourth quarter of 2010. On a comparable basis, Balls fourth quarter results were net earnings of $78.1 million, or 48 cents per diluted share, compared to $94.4 million, or 53 cents
,
 
 
 
 
per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010 including a tax benefit of 7 cents per diluted share. Weaker 12-ounce beverage can volumes in North America and Europe and six fewer accounting days dampened fourth quarter results and were partially offset by strong operating performance and continued growth in specialty packaging.
Details of comparable segment earnings for the full year and the fourth quarter can be found in the notes to the unauditedconsolidated financial statements that accompany this news release.
 
Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas & Asia
Metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia, comparable segment operating earnings were $481.7 million for full-year 2011 on sales of $4.4 billion, compared to $418.3 million in 2010 on sales of $3.8 billion. For the fourth quarter, comparable earnings were $119.9 million on sales of $1.1 billion, compared to $117.0 million on sales of $1.0 billion in 2010.
Ball successfully started up a new Alumi-Tek line during the quarter in the companys Golden, Colo., plant to meet growing demand for the popular reclosable aluminum bottle, and reduced 12-ounce beverage can capacity in its Columbus, Ohio, plant to manage inventories and better align Balls manufacturing output with market demand. The previously announced closure of the companys Torrance, Calif., plant was completed as scheduled and equipment from the plant was relocated to other facilities worldwide. Also during the fourth quarter, Ball acquired its partners 60 percent interests in a former joint venture metal beverage can plant in Qingdao, China. The company is building a new, expanded plant in Qingdao to meet increasing market demand in this fast growing region. Balls joint venture beverage can plants in Alagoinhas, Brazil, and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, are on schedule to start up by the end of the first quarter to meet continued strong customer demand.
Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe
Metal beverage packaging, Europe, comparable segment results in 2011 were operating earnings of $243.7 million on sales of $2.0 billion, compared to $213.5 million on sales of $1.7 billion in 2010. For the fourth quarter, comparable operating earnings in 2011 were $41.0 million on sales of $451.0 million, compared to $42.3 million on sales of $408.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
During the fourth quarter, continued soft beverage can volumes were partially offset by strong demand for extruded aluminum packaging. Ball will relocate the companys European headquarters from Germany to Switzerland during 2012 to centralize administrative functions and align more closely with customers.
 
 
 
 
Metal Food & Household Products Packaging, Americas
Metal food and household products packaging, Americas, comparable segment results for 2011 were operating earnings of $133.7 million on sales of $1.4 billion, compared to $129.1 million in 2010 on sales of $1.4 billion. For the fourth quarter of 2011, comparable segment results were operating earnings of $13.1 million on sales of $322.8 million, compared to $24.6 million on sales of $352.6 million in the same period of 2010.
Fourth quarter results were lower due to weaker volumes after a poor vegetable pack in the fall, increased plant curtailments late in the year to reduce inventory and the absence of customer prebuys compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. On a full-year basis the segment results improved due primarily to increased operating efficiencies and continued emphasis on lean manufacturing practices.
Aerospace and Technologies
Aerospace and technologies comparable segment results were operating earnings of $79.6 million on sales of $784.6 million in 2011, compared to $69.8 million on sales of $713.7 million in 2010. For the fourth quarter, earnings were $18.0 million on sales of $185.1 million, compared to $19.3 million on sales of $200.6 million in the quarter in 2010. Contracted backlog at the close of the year was $897 million.
NASAs NPP satellite, built by Ball Aerospace, launched successfully on Oct. 28. The satellites five science instruments will make critical measurements to provide long-term climate projections and data to improve short-term weather forecasts. Two of the instruments have already successfully acquired initial measurements from the satellites orbit 512 miles above the Earths surface. Also during the quarter, Ball Aerospace was awarded contracts to develop and integrate enhanced operational capabilities for the U.S. Air Force Distributed Common Ground System, providing new capabilities for the intelligence community.
Outlook
Ball announced yesterday a nearly 43 percent increase in the companys quarterly cash dividend, payable March 15 to shareholders of record on March 1, and increased its share repurchase authorization enabling the company to repurchase up to a total of 30 million shares of its common stock.
The dividend increase and share authorization reflect the companys expectations of continued strong free cash flow generation and earnings performance in 2012, said Scott C. Morrison, senior vice president and chief financial officer. During 2011 our operations generated more than $500 million in free cash flow after capital expenditures of nearly $444 million, of which in excess of $250 million was
 
 
 
 
for investments in growth opportunities. While some capital projects carried over into 2012, we still expect to generate free cash flow in the range of $450 million this year, the majority of which will be used to repurchase stock.
Our Drive for 10 vision focuses on continuing Balls strong performance over the next decade, and the momentum we built in 2011 provides us with a strong start toward that goal, Hayes said. We expect investments made in growth projects in 2011 to benefit 2012 results as those projects come on line, and our Drive for 10 actions will play a key role in helping Ball achieve our goal of 10 to 15 percent earnings per share growth in 2012 and beyond.
Ball Corporation is a supplier of high quality packaging for beverage, food and household products customers, and of aerospace and other technologies and services, primarily for the U.S. government. Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries employ more than 14,500 people worldwide and reported 2011 sales of more than $8.6 billion. For the latest Ball news and for other company information, please visit .
http://www.ball.com
Conference Call Details
Ball Corporation will hold its regular quarterly conference call on the companys results and performance today at 7:30 a.m. Mountain time (9:30 a.m. Eastern). The North American toll-free number for the call is 800-704-5375. International callers should dial 303-223-2683. Please use the following URL for a webcast of the live call: .
http://edge.media-server.com/m/p/e9dty694/lan/en
For those unable to listen to the live call, a taped replay will be available at 9:30 a.m. Mountain Time on Jan. 26, 2012, until 9:30 a.m. MT on Feb. 2, 2012. To access the replay, call 800-633-8284 (North American callers) or 402-977-9140 (international callers) and use reservation number 21564918.
A written transcript of the call will be posted within 48 hours of the calls conclusion to Balls website at in the investors section under presentations.
www.ball.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as expects, anticipates, estimates and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Key risks and uncertainties are summarized in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99.2 in our Form 10-K, which are available on our website and at
www.sec.gov
. Factors that might affect our packaging segments include fluctuation in product demand and preferences; availability and cost of raw materials; competitive packaging availability, pricing and substitution; changes in climate and weather; crop yields; competitive activity; failure to achieve anticipated productivity improvements or production cost reductions; mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging laws; changes in major customer or supplier contracts or loss of a major customer or supplier; political instability and sanctions; and changes in foreign exchange rates or tax rates. Factors that might affect our aerospace segment include: funding, authorization, availability and returns of government and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts. Factors that might affect the company as a whole include those listed plus: accounting changes; changes in senior management; the recent global recession and its effects on liquidity, credit risk, asset values and the economy; successful or unsuccessful acquisitions; regulatory action or laws including tax, environmental, health and workplace safety, including U.S. FDA and other actions affecting products filled in our containers, or chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; governmental investigations; technological developments and innovations; goodwill impairment; antitrust, patent and other litigation; strikes; labor cost changes; rates of return projected and earned on assets of the companys defined benefit retirement
plans; pension changes; uncertainties surrounding the U.S. government budget and debt limit; reduced cash flow; interest rates affecting our debt; and changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits or other effects.
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
2011
During the fourth quarter, the company recorded charges of $9.6 million ($9.6 million after tax) for the write down of the Lublin, Poland, facility to net realizable value, as well as charges of $4.1 million ($2.6 million after tax) incurred in connection with the planned relocation of the companys European headquarters from Germany to Switzerland in 2012. Also during the fourth quarter, Ball recorded a net gain of $6.8 million ($4.2 million after tax) for the sale of tangible assets from the Torrance, California, facility less costs of closing the facility (see discussion below). Additional charges included $3.0 million ($1.8 million after tax) related to capacity reduction at the Columbus, Ohio, metal beverage plant and costs associated with previously closed facilities.
In October 2011, Ball acquired its partners interests in a former joint venture metal beverage can plant in Qingdao, PRC. As a result of the required purchase accounting, the company recorded a gain in equity in results of affiliates of $9.2 million, related to the previously held interest in the joint venture.
In January 2011, Ball announced plans to close its Torrance, California, beverage can manufacturing plant; relocate a 12-ounce can line from the Torrance plant to its Whitby, Ontario, plant; and expand specialty can production in its Fort Worth, Texas, plant. The company recorded charges of $14.2 million ($8.6 million after tax) during the first nine months of 2011, respectively, in connection with these activities. Additionally, in September 2011, the company recorded a charge of $1.4 million ($0.9 million after tax) in connection with the discontinued production of certain products.
Also in January 2011, the company acquired Aerocan S.A.S. for 221.7 million ($295.2 million) in cash and assumed debt. Aerocan is a leading European manufacturer of extruded aerosol containers and the aluminum slugs used to make them. During 2011, the company recorded transaction costs of $2.9 million ($1.9 million after tax) related to the acquisition.
2010
In August 2010, the company paid $46.2 million to acquire an additional 10.1 percent economic interest in its Brazilian beverage packaging joint venture, Latapack-Ball Embalagens Ltda. (Latapack-Ball), through a transaction with the joint venture partner Latapack S.A., which increased the companys economic interest in the joint venture to 60.1 percent and resulted in Ball consolidating the joint venture. In the consolidation of Latapack-Ball, the company recognized a gain of $81.8 million in equity in results of affiliates, related to the previously held equity investment in Latapack-Ball.
Also in August 2010, the company completed the sale of its plastic packaging, Americas, business to Amcor Limited and received proceeds of $258.7 million, after customary closing adjustments. The sale of Balls plastic packaging business included five U.S. plants that manufacture polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles and preforms and polypropylene bottles, as well as associated customer contracts and other related assets. In connection with the sale, the company reported discontinued operations as detailed in the following table.
9
 
 
 
Income of $5.0 million ($3.0 million after tax) were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 for the gain on sale (net of estimated lease exit costs) and the subsequent leaseback of Balls Richmond, British Columbia, facility. Also included in the fourth quarter was a charge of $2.6 million ($2.6 million after tax) to write off capitalized installation costs associated with the decision not to complete a plant in Lublin, Poland; a charge of $0.6 million ($0.4 million after tax) for transaction costs incurred for the announced first quarter 2011 acquisition of Aerocan S.A.S. in Europe and $0.6 million ($0.3 million after tax) for individually insignificant items.
In the third quarter, earnings of $17.8 million ($14.5 million after tax) were recorded due to the reversal of a pension settlement liability. The earnings were offset by a charge of $4.6 million ($2.8 million after tax) for the closure of a plant in Canada. The third quarter of 2010 also included other individually insignificant costs of $1.6 million ($1.0 million after tax).
In June 2010, the company acquired the remaining 65 percent interest in a joint venture metal beverage can and end plant in Sanshui, PRC, for $86.9 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and assumed debt. As a result of the required purchase accounting, the company recorded a gain in equity in results of affiliates of $24.1 million, related to the previously held interest in the joint venture.
The second quarter of 2010 included a charge of $3.1 million ($1.9 million after tax) to establish a reserve associated with an environmental matter at a previously owned facility. Additionally, in April 2010, Ball redeemed senior notes due December 2012, which resulted in a charge of $8.1 million ($4.9 million after tax) for the related call premium and write off of unamortized financing costs and unamortized premiums. In December 2010, the company refinanced its senior credit facilities and recorded a charge of $0.7 million ($0.4 million after tax) for the write off of unamortized financing costs.
A summary of the effects of the above transactions on after-tax earnings is as follows:
A summary of the effects of the above transactions before interest and taxes follows:
Balls management segregates the above comparable items to evaluate the performance of the companys continuing operations. The information is presented on a non-U.S. GAAP basis and should be considered in connection with the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings. Non-U.S. GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation.

Exhibit 99.2
BROOMFIELD, Colo., Jan. 25, 2012Ball Corporations [NYSE: BLL] board of directors today increased the companys quarterly cash dividend by nearly 43 percent to 10 cents per share and authorized the repurchase by the company of up to a total of 30 million shares of its common stock. This repurchase authorization replaces all previous authorizations.
This dividend increase and stock repurchase authorization return value to our shareholders while maintaining financial flexibility, and reflect managements expectations of continued strong free cash flow generation and earnings performance, said John A. Hayes, Balls president and chief executive officer.
The cash dividend of 10 cents per share is payable March 15, 2012, to shareholders of record on March 1, 2012. Ball will announce its fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings on Thursday, Jan. 26, 2012. Conference call details are below.
Ball Corporation is a supplier of high quality packaging for beverage, food and household products customers, and of aerospace and other technologies and services, primarily for the U.S. government. Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries employ more than 14,500 people worldwide and reported 2010 sales of more than $7.6 billion. For the latest Ball news and for other company information, please visit .
http://www.ball.com
Conference Call Details
Ball Corporation will announce its fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings on Thursday, Jan. 26, 2012, before trading begins on the New York Stock Exchange. At 7:30 a.m. Mountain Time on that day (9:30 a.m. Eastern), Ball will hold its
 
 
 
 
 
 
regular quarterly conference call on the companys results and performance. The North American toll-free number for the call is 800-704-5375. International callers should dial 303-223-2683. Please use the following URL for a webcast of the live call: .
http://edge.media-server.com/m/p/e9dty694/lan/en
For those unable to listen to the live call, a taped replay will be available at 9:30 a.m. Mountain Time on Jan. 26, 2012, until 9:30 a.m. MT on Feb. 2, 2012. To access the replay, call 800-633-8284 (North American callers) or 402-977-9140 (international callers) and use reservation number 21564918.
A written transcript of the call will be posted within 48 hours of the calls conclusion to Balls website at in the investors section under presentations.
www.ball.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as expects, anticipates, estimates and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Key risks and uncertainties are summarized in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99.2 in our Form 10-K, which are available on our website and at . Factors that might affect our packaging segments include fluctuation in product demand and preferences; availability and cost of raw materials; competitive packaging availability, pricing and substitution; changes in climate and weather; crop yields; competitive activity; failure to achieve anticipated productivity improvements or production cost reductions; mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging laws; changes in major customer or supplier contracts or loss of a major customer or supplier; political instability and sanctions; and changes in foreign exchange rates or tax rates. Factors that might affect our aerospace segment include: funding, authorization, availability and returns of government and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts. Factors that might affect the company as a whole include those listed plus: accounting changes; changes in senior management; the recent global recession and its effects on liquidity, credit risk, asset values and the economy; successful or unsuccessful acquisitions; regulatory action or laws including tax, environmental, health and workplace safety, including U.S. FDA and other actions affecting products filled in our containers, or chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; governmental investigations; technological developments and innovations; goodwill impairment; antitrust, patent and other litigation; strikes; labor cost changes; rates of return projected and earned on assets of the companys defined benefit retirement plans; pension changes; uncertainties surrounding the U.S. government budget and debt limit; reduced cash flow; interest rates affecting our debt; and changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits or other effects.
www.sec.gov
 
 
 


