FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20040831172733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Section 1.  Registrant's Business and Operations
Section 9.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: August 31, 2004

Award Summary:
Stock Option Grant:
Dividend Equivalent (DERs) Grant:
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amended and Restated Award Agreement to be duly executed by its officer thereunto duly authorized, and Director has executed this Agreement, each on the dates set forth below, this Agreement to be effective on the latter of the two dates.

 
 
 
        This AMENDMENT ("Amendment") dated the date set forth in the Acceptance attached hereto amends certain provisions of that certain Stock Option and Dividend Equivalent Award Agreement dated as of _____, 200___ (the "Agreement"), between Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and [Name of Director] ("Director"), a director of the Company. Terms used herein, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
     
A.
.
Amendment to Agreement
        1. The Agreement is hereby amended by deleting Paragraph A.3(a) in its entirety and inserting in its place a Paragraph A.3(a) as follows:
        3.
Exercise of Option.
B.     
General Confirmation and Amendment.
        1.       . Except as specifically provided herein, this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms and is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
Continuing Effect
        2.       . This Amendment is limited as specified and the execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a modification, acceptance or waiver of any provision of the Agreement except as specifically set forth herein.
No Waiver
C.      
Miscellaneous.
        1.        This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors to the Company and all persons lawfully claiming under Director.
Binding Effect.
        2.        This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Washington.
Governing Law.
Award Summary:
Stock Option Grant:
Dividend Equivalent (DERs) Grant:
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to the Stock Option and Dividend Equivalent Award Agreement to be duly executed by its officer thereunto duly authorized, and Director has executed this Agreement, each on the dates set forth below, this Agreement to be effective on the latter of the two dates.


