FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20070418151112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing Mr. Lindquist's appointment is included as an exhibit to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit No.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: April 18, 2007
Exhibit No.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
Plum Creek Names Thomas M. Lindquist
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
 Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. (NYSE: PCL) has appointed Thomas M. Lindquist as executive vice president and chief operating officer. In his new role, he will oversee the sustainable management of the company's 8.2 million acres of timberland, as well as its Real Estate and Manufacturing segments. Lindquist will report to Rick R. Holley, president and chief executive officer.
SEATTLE
"Tom joined Plum Creek in 2001 as executive vice president," said Rick Holley. "Since then, he has proven to be a dynamic leader and strong contributor to our executive team. He has transformed the company's Real Estate segment from an emerging business to an established and continuously growing business that has achieved significant financial results for Plum Creek.
"Tom's appointment to this newly-created position of chief operating officer underscores our commitment to value maximization and will ensure that we execute our strategies with a comprehensive view of the value of all our assets."
Prior to joining Plum Creek, Lindquist was with Trammell Crow Company where he held several roles in business development before advancing to the position of executive vice president.
He earned a Bachelor of Science degree in business administration, finance and marketing from the University of Washington, and a Master of Business Administration from the Harvard Business School.
Plum Creek is the largest and most geographically diverse private landowner in the nation with more than 8 million acres of timberlands in major timber producing regions of the United States and 10 wood products manufacturing facilities in the Northwest.
CONTACT:
Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc.
Investors: John Hobbs 1-800-858-5347
Media: Kathy Budinick 1-888-467-3751
SOURCE: Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc.


