FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20081217161422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2. Financial Information
 
On December 15, 2008, Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. ("Plum Creek") completed the first phase of its previously announced sale of western Montana timberlands to The Nature Conservancy, a non-profit corporation of the District of Columbia, and The Trust for Public Land, a California nonprofit public benefit corporation. Plum Creek received $150 million in cash for approximately 130,000 acres of timberlands. The terms of the transaction are governed by a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of June 30, 2008, as amended, pursuant to which The Nature Conservancy and the Trust for Public Land agreed to purchase, in the aggregate, approximately 310,000 acres of western Montana timberlands for a total purchase price of $502 million. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the original purchase price of $510 million was reduced by $8 million in connection with the sale of a portion of the timberlands by Plum Creek to other parties pending the closing of the transaction.
Section 8. Other Events
 
The Plum Creek annual meeting of stockholders is scheduled to take place on May 6, 2009, and stockholders of record on March 10, 2009 will be entitled to vote at the meeting. In addition to the other items of business to be considered at the meeting (election of directors, ratifying vote on the appointment of the independent auditor and one shareholder proposal), shareholders will be asked to vote on and approve two separate amendments to the Plum Creek certificate of incorporation. The first is an amendment to increase the share ownership limitation from 5% to 9.8%, and the second is an amendment to conform the voting standard for uncontested director elections to the standard set forth in Plum Creek's By-laws, which provide for a majority of votes cast standard. Plum Creek's By-laws require that proposals of stockholders made outside of Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 be submitted not earlier than February 6, 2009, and not later than March 8, 2009. Article II, Section 5 of the By-laws governs submission of matters for presentation at stockholder meetings. To be considered timely under Rule 14a-4(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, such matters must be received at Plum Creek's principal executive offices not later than March 8, 2009.
Section 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: December 17, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information has been prepared to reflect the sale by Plum Creek of approximately 310,000 acres of timberlands ("Montana Timberlands") located in its Northern Resources Segment for $502 million. The transaction is scheduled to close in three separate phases. On December 15, 2008, the company closed the first phase of the transaction for $150 million, approximately 130,000 acres. The remaining phases are scheduled for closing in December 2009 ($250 million, approximately 110,000 acres) and December 2010 ($102 million, approximately, 70,000 acres). Our book basis in the Montana Timberlands expected to be sold is approximately $214 million. In accordance with the pro forma presentation requirements, the company has summarized all three phases in the pro forma condensed consolidated financial information since management believes the second and third phase closings are probable.
Plum Creek primarily sold logs from the Montana Timberlands to the company's Manufactured Products Segment. Historically, these sales were reported as intersegment transactions. In connection with the Montana Timberlands transaction, the company entered into a wood fiber supply agreement with the buyer to purchase logs at market-based prices for a period of ten years. The fiber supply agreement may be extended for an additional five years. The company expects that the wood volume purchased pursuant to the fiber supply agreement will not be a significant source of logs for its manufacturing facilities (less than 10% of its manufacturing facilities total log usage).
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2008 gives effect to the Montana Timberlands transaction as if it occurred on September 30, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 and for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2008 gives effect to the Montana Timberlands transaction as if it occurred on January 1, 2007. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is subject to the assumptions and adjustments set forth in the accompanying notes. Management believes the assumptions used and the adjustments made are reasonable based on the information available.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to represent, or be indicative of, what the company's results of operations or financial position would have been had the Montana Timberlands transactions occurred on the dates indicated. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information should not be considered representative of the company's future financial position or results of operations.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


