FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20090507172104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
The amendments to the Certificate became effective on May 6, 2009. For a copy of the actual Certificate of Amendment, please refer to Exhibit 3.1, which is incorporated herein by reference and filed as an exhibit to this current report on Form 8-K.
Section 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: May 7, 2009
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. (the "Corporation"), a Delaware corporation, does hereby certify as follows:
FIRST: Paragraph E.2 of Article FOURTH of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth below:
 
 
 
SECOND: Paragraph A of Article FIFTH of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth below:
 
 
 
THIRD: The definition of "Ownership Limit," as set forth in Article ELEVENTH of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth below:
 
FOURTH: Article ELEVENTH of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended to delete the definition of "Excluded Holder."
FIFTH: The foregoing amendments were duly adopted in accordance with Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate to be executed in its corporate name this 6th day of May, 2009.
 


