FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20100211153540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
Previously, the by-laws required a majority of shares present and entitled to vote at the meeting of stockholders in order for an item of business to be approved. The by-law amendment changes this vote requirement to mirror the default voting standard for corporations incorporated in the State of Delaware, which requires approval of a majority of shares present and entitled to vote on the specific item in question. Under this new voting standard abstentions will have the same effect as a vote against the item of business and broker non-votes, if any, will have no effect on the outcome of the vote. A copy of the by-law amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: February 11, 2010
 

Exhibit 3.1
The Amended and Restated By-Laws of Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., as previously amended on February 7, 2007 and February 5, 2008 (the "By-Laws") are hereby amended, effective February 9, 2010, as set forth below:
Section 9 of Article II of the By-Laws is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders, other than the election of directors, shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the total number of votes of the Corporation's capital stock represented in person or by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on such question, voting as a single class. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to Section 5 of Article V hereof, each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Section 9. .
Voting


