FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20110505152331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on May 3, 2011. Proxies were solicited pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to vote on four items of business: (1) a proposal to elect nine individuals to the company's board of directors for a one-year term expiring at the company's 2012 annual stockholder meeting; (2) a proposal to approve, on an advisory and non-binding basis, the company's executive compensation; (3) a proposal to select, on an advisory and non-binding basis, the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation; and (4) a proposal to ratify, on an advisory and non-binding basis, the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011.
Required Vote
For Proposals 1, 2 and 4, the vote standard is a majority of the votes cast "For" and "Against" the item of business. To be approved, the votes cast "For" an item of business must exceed the votes cast "Against" the item of business. Therefore, votes to abstain and broker non-votes have no effect on the outcome.
For Proposal 3, the vote standard is a plurality of the votes cast among the three choices. The frequencyevery 1 year, every 2 years or every 3 yearsthat receives the largest number of votes, even if not a majority of the votes cast, is considered the preference of our stockholders. Therefore, votes to abstain and broker non-votes have no effect on the outcome.
Vote Results
Following are the vote results for each proposal submitted to a vote of the stockholders at the annual meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Determination of Frequency of Future Executive Compensation Advisory Votes
In light of the vote results for Proposal 3, the board of directors has determined that the company will hold future executive compensation advisory votes on an annual basis until the next required advisory vote on frequency is held.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: May 5, 2011


