FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20120510145941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 8, 2012
 
PLUM CREEK TIMBER COMPANY, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Section 5. Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) On February 6, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (Committee) approved grants of value management awards and restricted stock units under the 2012 Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan (the Stock Plan) to the company's executive officers, subject to approval of the Stock Plan by stockholders at the company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 8, 2012. On May 8, 2012, stockholders approved the Stock Plan.
The following table sets forth the number of value management award units and restricted stock units granted to each of the named executive officers listed in the company's 2012 definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 29, 2012:
 
Under the terms of the value management awards, target performance of $100 per unit is achieved if relative total stockholder return is at the 55
th
percentile for each of the peer groups, and maximum performance of $200 per unit is achieved only if relative total stockholder return is at or above the 85
th
percentile for each of the peer groups. There is no award payout if relative total stockholder return is below threshold performance, which is set at the 25
th
percentile for each of the peer groups. Payouts are made on a sliding scale basis between threshold and maximum performance.
Restricted stock units vest in four equal installments on February 3
rd
of each year following the date of grant. Upon vesting, restricted stock units convert, on a one-to-one basis, into shares of common stock of the company. During the vesting period, award recipients are paid an amount in cash equal to any dividend declared and paid on the company's common stock multiplied by the amount of outstanding restricted stock units.
The Stock Plan and a form of award agreement governing the terms and conditions applicable to the awards described herein are filed as exhibits to this Current Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on May 8, 2012. Proxies were solicited pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to vote on four items of business: (1) a proposal to elect ten individuals to the company's board of directors for one-year terms expiring at the company's 2013 annual stockholder meeting; (2) a proposal to approve, on an advisory and non-binding basis, the company's executive compensation; (3) a proposal to approve a new stock incentive plan; and (4) a proposal to ratify, on an advisory and non-binding basis, the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012.
Required Vote
For each of the proposals, the vote standard is a majority of the votes cast For and Against the proposal. To be approved, the votes cast For the proposal must exceed the votes cast Against the proposal. Therefore, votes to abstain and broker non-votes have no effect on the outcome.
Vote Results
Following are the vote results for each proposal submitted to a vote of the stockholders at the annual meeting.
 
Proposal 1
Ten individuals nominated by the company's board of directors for election to one-year terms expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders were elected to the board. The vote results were as follows:
 
Proposal 2
The company's executive compensation was approved by the stockholders on a non-binding and advisory basis. The vote results were as follows:
 
Proposal 3
The company's new stock incentive plan was approved by the stockholders. The vote results were as follows:
 
Proposal 4
The appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012 was ratified by the stockholders on a non-binding and advisory basis. The vote results were as follows:
 
Determination of Frequency of Future Executive Compensation Advisory Votes
At the company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the board of directors recommended, and approximately 86% of the stockholders voting on the proposal (not including 768,439 abstain votes) chose, to have the company hold executive compensation advisory votes (Say on Pay) on an annual basis until the next required advisory vote on frequency is held. In light of the foregoing, the company intends to hold the Say on Pay vote annually. The next advisory vote on frequency will be held at the company's 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Section 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: May 10, 2012
PLUM CREEK TIMBER COMPANY, INC.
Exhibit Index
 
Exhibit No.
    

Exhibit 10.2
2012 PLUM CREEK TIMBER COMPANY, INC. STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
AWARD AGREEMENT
This AWARD AGREEMENT made as of the 6
th
day of February 2012 (the 
Agreement
), between Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the 
Company
), and the individual identified on the Award Agreement Acceptance attached hereto (the 
Acceptance
), an employee of Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., a subsidiary of the Company (
Employee
). In recognition of the important contributions that Employee makes to the success of the Company, and in consideration of the mutual agreements and other matters set forth herein and in the 2012 Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time (the 
Plan
), which Plan is incorporated herein by reference as a part of this Agreement, subject to and contingent upon approval of the Plan by the Company's stockholders at its 2012 Annual Stockholder Meeting on May 8, 2012, or any adjournment or postponement thereof, the Company hereby grants to Employee under the Plan the following long-term incentive awards on the terms and conditions set forth below.
A.
Definitions
.
Capitalized terms used herein, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. The following definitions will apply for purposes of this Agreement:
  
 
1.
Grant of Restricted Stock Units.
The Company hereby grants to Employee that number of Restricted Stock Units as is set forth in the Acceptance, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, and subject to such other restrictions, if any, as may be imposed by law.
2.
Vesting and Payment of Restricted Stock Units
. The Restricted Stock Units shall be Vested in 25% increments each year of the Restricted Period on February 3rd, conditioned upon Employee's continued employment with the Company as of each Vesting Date during the Restricted Period, all according to the following schedule:
 
1
Exhibit 10.2
Within a reasonable period of time after each Vesting Date (and in no event later than the March 15
th
following the year in which the applicable Vesting Date occurs), the Company shall pay and transfer to Employee a number of shares of Stock equal to the aggregate number of Restricted Stock Units that Vested on such Vesting Date. In the event that Employee's employment with the Company terminates prior to the end of the Restricted Period for any reason other than a termination of employment due to death or Disability or in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Plan (qualifying terminations of employment within one year following a Change in Control), then any portion of Restricted Stock Units that has not then become Vested shall be forfeited automatically.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, upon a Change in Control, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to Section 10 of the Plan.
 
3.
Cash Upon Payment of Dividends
. If on any date the Company shall pay any dividend on the Stock, then the Company shall pay to Employee a cash amount equal to the product of the number of Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder multiplied by the per share amount of any such dividend (or, in the case of any dividend payable in property other than cash, the per share value of such dividend, as determined in good faith by the Board).
4.
Withholding of Tax Upon Payment of Stock or Cash.
Any obligation of the Company to pay and transfer to Employee Stock pursuant to Section B.2 or cash pursuant to Section B.3 shall be subject to the satisfaction of all applicable federal, state and local income and employment tax withholding requirements as determined by the Company, and in connection therewith the Company is hereby authorized to withhold from any cash or Stock remuneration then or thereafter payable to Employee any tax required to be withheld by reason of such resulting compensation income.
 
1.
Grant of Value Management Award.
The Company hereby grants to Employee a Value Management Award measured with reference to the number of units set forth in the Acceptance, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, and subject to such other restrictions, if any, as may be imposed by law.
2.
Face Value
. Each Value Management Award unit shall have a face value of $100.
3.
Peer Group
. For purposes of this Agreement, the Company's peer group (the 
Peer Group
) shall be comprised of three components: (a) the industry peer group companies set forth in
Exhibit A
to this Agreement; (b) companies in the S&P 500 Index; and (c) companies in the Morgan Stanley REIT Index; provided, that each of the foregoing Peer Group components shall be subject to equitable adjustment by the Committee in its sole discretion to the extent that one or more companies in any component grouping shall cease to maintain separate legal existence by reason of merger or legal dissolution or otherwise, or shall no longer be part of the applicable index. For purposes of determining values earned for the Value Management Award units granted hereby, the components of the Peer Group will be given the following weightings: industry group 25%; S&P group 50%; and REIT Index group 25%.
4.
Performance Goals.
The performance goals for the Value Management Award granted hereby (the 
Performance Goals
) shall constitute a measure of Total Shareholder Return over the Performance Period, relative to that of the Peer Group, as set forth below:
 
2
Exhibit 10.2
Following completion of the Performance Period, the Committee will calculate the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and that of each of the companies in each component of the Peer Group, and will rank the Company's performance by percentile for each component of the Peer Group. Upon a determination by the Committee of the Company's relative performance for each group as weighted pursuant to Paragraph C.3, an amount with respect to each component will be paid in accordance with Paragraph C.5 to Employee equal to (a) the aggregate face amount of the Value Management Award multiplied by (b) the percentage amount corresponding to the identified percentile ranking as set forth above.
5.
Time and Form of Payment.
All payments with respect to the Value Management Award shall be made within a reasonable time following the end of the Performance Period, but in no event later than the March 15
th
following the end of the Performance Period. If at the end of the Performance Period Employee is in full compliance with the minimum requirements for stock ownership as set forth in the Company's Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers, as in effect on such date, amounts earned shall be paid 100% in cash, less any required tax withholding, or a combination of cash and Stock, as elected by Employee. If at the end of the Performance Period Employee is not in full compliance with the minimum requirements for Stock ownership as set forth in the Company's Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers, as in effect on such date, any amounts earned shall be paid in that number of shares of Stock necessary to bring Employee into full compliance with such minimum requirements up to 50% of the total amount paid, with the balance, less any required tax withholding, paid either in cash or a combination of cash and Stock as elected by Employee.
6.
Termination of Employment; Change in Control
. If Employee's employment terminates for any reason prior to the completion of the Performance Period relating to the Value Management Award (other than termination due to death or Disability pursuant to Section 10 of the Plan), no Value Management Award shall be payable to Employee. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, upon a Change in Control, the Value Management Award shall be subject to Section 10 of the Plan.
7.
Withholding of Tax Upon Payment of Stock or Cash.
Any obligation of the Company to pay and transfer to Employee cash or Stock pursuant to Section C.5 shall be subject to the satisfaction of all applicable federal, state and local income and employment tax withholding requirements as determined by the Company, and in connection therewith the Company is hereby authorized to withhold from any cash or Stock remuneration then or thereafter payable to Employee any tax required to be withheld by reason of such resulting compensation income.
1.
Employment Relationship.
For purposes of this Agreement, Employee shall be considered to be in the employment of the Company as long as Employee remains an employee of either the Company, a parent or subsidiary corporation (as defined in section 428 of the Code) of the Company, or a corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such corporation. Any question as to whether and when there has been a termination of such employment, and the cause of any such termination, shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and such determination shall be final.
2.
Voting and Other Rights
. Unless and until a certificate or certificates representing shares of Stock shall have been issued by the Company to Employee in connection with the payment of Stock in connection with Vested Restricted Stock Units, or any payment of a Value Management Award made in Stock, Employee shall not be, or have any of the rights or privileges of a shareholder of the Company with respect to, shares of Stock.
3.
Status of Stock.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in the absence of an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, or an available exemption from registration under the Securities Act, for the issuance of shares of Stock in connection with any Award granted hereby, such issuance of shares of Stock will be delayed until registration of such shares of Stock is effective or an exemption from registration under the Securities Act is available. The Company intends to use its best efforts to ensure that no such delay will occur. In the event exemption from registration under the Securities Act is available, Employee, if requested by the Company to do so, will execute and deliver to the Company in writing an agreement containing such provisions as the Company may require to assure compliance with applicable securities laws. Employee agrees that the shares of Stock that Employee may acquire in connection with any Award will not be sold or
3
Exhibit 10.2
otherwise disposed of in any manner that would constitute a violation of any applicable securities laws. Employee also agrees that (a) the certificates representing such shares of Stock may bear such legend or legends as the Company deems appropriate in order to assure compliance with applicable securities laws, (b) the Company may refuse to register the transfer of such shares of Stock on the stock transfer records of the Company if such proposed transfer would, in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company, constitute a violation of any applicable securities law and (c) the Company may give related instructions to its transfer agent, if any, to stop registration of the transfer of such shares of Stock.
4.
Reimbursement by Employee.
Employee hereby agrees that if (a) the payment of any Value Management Award or gains realized upon sale of Stock acquired upon Vesting of any Restricted Stock Units was predicated upon the achievement of financial results that were the product of fraudulent activity or were subsequently the subject of a material negative restatement of the Company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), (b) in the Committee's sole discretion Employee engaged in fraud or conduct known by him or her to be in violation of SEC rules and regulations or Company policy that caused Employee to be personally responsible for the fraudulent activity or restatement, and (c) in the Committee's judgment in light of relevant facts and circumstances a lower payment would have been made to, or less gain would have been realized by, Employee absent such restatement or fraudulent activity, then immediately upon demand by the Committee, Employee shall reimburse the Company: (i) the entire amount of any such payment of such Value Management Award; and (ii) the entire amount of proceeds received by Employee from the sale of such Stock acquired upon Vesting of Restricted Stock Units.
5.
Binding Effect.
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors to the Company and all persons lawfully claiming under Employee.
6.
Governing Law.
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Washington.
 
4
Exhibit 10.2
Exhibit A
Deltic Timber Corp.
International Paper Co.
Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
Mead-Westvaco Corporation
Potlatch Corporation
Rayonier Inc.
The St. Joe Company
Timberwest Forest Corp.
Universal Forest Products Inc.
Weyerhaeuser Co.
5
Exhibit 10.2
2012 AWARD AGREEMENT ACCEPTANCE
You have been granted the following long-term incentive awards under the 2012 Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan:
Award Summary
        
Award Agreement Date: 6th day of February 2012
 
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Restricted Stock Units granted:
Vesting schedule per Section B.2:
         
Value Management Award (VMAs)
Value Management Award granted:
Aggregate Face Amount of the VMA at $100 per unit is:
Performance Period: January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014
Signature Page Follows
6
Exhibit 10.2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be duly executed by its officer thereunto duly authorized, and Employee has executed this Agreement, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
DATED: February 6, 2012
Employee Signature
                                        
                                                                 
Date: 
                             
7


