FILE:PCL/PCL-8K-20120213162159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(d) On February 7, 2012, the Board of Directors of Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. appointed Lawrence A. Selzer to serve as a member of the Board for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to take place on May 8, 2012. Mr. Selzer has not yet been appointed to a committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Selzer is the President of The Conservation Fund, an environmental nonprofit organization. On December 9, 2011, the company entered into an agreement with The Conservation Fund for the sale of 702 acres of land in Alachua County, Florida for a purchase price of $1,700,000. The transaction is scheduled to close on February 15, 2012.
Section 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATED: February 13, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
For more information contact:
Lawrence A. Selzer to Join Plum Creek Board of Directors
 Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. (NYSE: PCL) announced today that Lawrence A. Selzer has joined the company's board of directors.
SEATTLE
Selzer is president and chief executive officer of The Conservation Fund, one of the nation's top-ranked environmental nonprofit organizations. Since 1985, the Fund has protected nearly 7 million acres of wild havens, working lands and vibrant communities across 50 states.
Prior to serving in his current position, Selzer led the Fund's efforts to integrate economic and environmental goals, launching the Fund's training, leadership and climate programs, mitigation banking efforts and its Natural Capital Investment Fund. He has also conducted research on marine mammal and seabird populations for the Manomet Center for Conservation Science.
"Larry's deep experience with and commitment to conservation and the environment make him an excellent addition to our board," said Rick Holley, president and chief executive officer. "His expertise will be valuable as Plum Creek continues its longstanding commitment to conservation and the environment." Since 1989, the company has committed more than 1.4 million acres of land to conservation outcomes across the United States.
Selzer earned a Bachelor of Science degree in environmental studies from Wesleyan University and a Masters of Business Administration from the University of Virginia. He serves on the boards of the American Bird Conservancy, The Outdoor Foundation and The Sustainable Forestry Initiative; and has previously served on the board of The Wildlife Habitat Council and on the National Academies' Transportation Research Board.
Selzer is the ninth independent member of Plum Creek's board, which is comprised of ten individuals.
Plum Creek is the largest and most geographically diverse private landowner in the nation with approximately 6.6 million acres of timberlands in major timber producing regions of the United States and wood products manufacturing facilities in the Northwest. For more information, visit .
www.plumcreek.com


