FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20031021122452.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
On October 21, 2003, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its earnings for the quarter ending September 27, 2003, as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Avery Dennison Corporation's earnings release dated October 21, 2003, regarding its third quarter 2003 financial results is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its third quarter results during a webcast and conference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access our webcast and conference call, please go to our website at http://www.investors.averydennison.com.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and exhibit 99.1 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings pertaining to the subject matter; impact of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy, the Company's customers and business; successful integration of acquired companies, financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the Exhibit 99 "Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The Safe Harbor Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 28, 2003. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 21, 2003
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Media Relations:
For Immediate Release
Charles E. Coleman (626) 304-2014
communications@averydennison.com
 
Investor Relations:
Cynthia S. Guenther (626) 304-2204
investorcom@averydennison.com
 
 
 
PASADENA, Calif.  October 21, 2003  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported third quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.67, compared with $0.64 for the prior-year quarter, which included a special charge to earnings in the third quarter of 2002.
 
"Our third quarter results are consistent with the revised earnings expectation that we announced on September 18," said Philip M. Neal, chairman and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "As we indicated last month, weakened business conditions, particularly in markets in North America and Western Europe, persisted throughout the third quarter and affected virtually all of our core businesses. However, top-line growth at operations in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America continued to be strong."
 
 
 
2-2-2
 
Key results for the third quarter of 2003 include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-3-3
 
 
Key results for the first nine months of 2003 include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector posted revenue growth of approximately 10 percent over the third quarter of 2002, with reported
 
 
4-4-4
 
sales for the sector of $756.1 million. Approximately two-thirds of the incremental sales are attributable to the impact of currency exchange rates, primarily the Euro.
 
Sales in the European pressure-sensitive roll materials business increased at a mid single-digit rate before the impact of currency exchange rates. Top-line results for the roll materials business in Eastern Europe and China were especially strong, with both regions achieving sales growth of approximately 25 percent over prior-year levels. The Latin American roll materials business reported continued double-digit sales growth. The North American roll materials business reported a low single-digit rate of decline in sales compared with the prior year, driven by continued weak economic conditions.
 
The global specialty tape business reported strong sales growth, with double-digit increases excluding the impact of currency exchange rates, as it continued to introduce a variety of new products for medical and industrial applications. The graphics and reflective materials businesses achieved mid single-digit sales growth before the impact of currency exchange rates, with strong double-digit growth in the emerging markets and solid results in North American operations, which were offset by relatively flat sales growth in European operations.
 
Operating margin for the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector increased 120 basis points over the prior-year third quarter. The third quarter of 2002 included a non-cash charge to earnings which had a negative impact of 160 basis points on the sector's operating margin.
 
The Consumer and Converted Products sector reported sales growth of approximately 7 percent over the same quarter a year ago, driven by the positive impact of acquisitions and currency exchange rates, which were partially offset by an
 
 
5-5-5
 
overall sales decline of approximately 2 percent for core businesses in the sector. Reported sales for the sector were $506.1 million.
 
Sales in the worldwide office products business were down approximately 1 percent, reflecting an improvement over the 3 percent to 4 percent declines reported in the first two quarters of 2003. Point-of-sale results at the office products superstores declined at a low single-digit rate during the quarter. The retail information services business reported continued weak results for the third quarter, which were primarily attributed to a decline in new program sales during the third quarter driven by cautious retailers.
 
Operating margin for the Consumer and Converted Products sector declined 190 basis points from the prior-year third quarter. The third quarter of 2002 included a non-cash charge to earnings which had a negative impact of 90 basis points on the sector's operating margin.
 
Avery Dennison said that it has revised its expectation for the fourth quarter of 2003 and it anticipates earnings to be in the range of $0.56 to $0.60 per share, before the expected net effect of a gain on divested operations and the impact of restructuring. The Company said that this projection for the fourth quarter assumes a benefit of $0.02 to $0.03 per share from currency exchange rates, and reported revenue growth from continuing operations in the range of 8 to 10 percent, driven primarily by currency exchange rates and last year's acquisitions of RVL and L&E. The fourth quarter projection also assumes operating margin in the range of 7.5 to 8.5 percent, interest expense of approximately $14 million, and a tax rate of 27.5 percent.
 
 
 
6-6-6
 
The Company said that the divestiture of its package label converting operations in Europe was recently completed. Before the benefit of an estimated $27 million pre-tax gain on the sale, the divestiture is expected to reduce earnings by $0.02 per share in the fourth quarter.
 
Avery Dennison announced that it is planning a variety of new measures to increase productivity and reduce expenses that are expected to result in cost savings in the range of $20 million to $25 million for 2004, rising to $30 million to $35 million in 2005. These actions include new headcount reductions at businesses throughout the Company, primarily in North American operations, in the range of 500 to 600 positions, which are unrelated to previously announced targets for headcount reductions. The Company said that it anticipates fourth quarter restructuring charges associated with these actions, which will partially offset the benefit from the gain on the sale of its package label converting operations.
 
"We are experiencing a relatively prolonged period of difficult business conditions and we are not assuming improvement in the economic climate through the end of the year. However, we are encouraged by the strides we are making to develop new sources of top-line growth, to significantly improve productivity and to aggressively reduce costs," said Neal. "We are confident that our strategies are on track to provide increased sales growth and improved profitability over the long-term."
 
"We are excited about the momentum and initial successes being achieved by our top-line growth initiative that has been introduced throughout the Company," said Neal. "Teams of Avery Dennison employees, currently totaling more than 1,500 individuals around the world, have developed and launched new products and applications that have already generated incremental sales of approximately $15 million to $20 million to date, and we expect the efforts of this program to contribute at least $50 million of annualized incremental sales by the end of 2003."
 
 
7-7-7
 
Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and innovative self-adhesive solutions for consumer products and label materials. Based in Pasadena, Calif., the Company had 2002 sales of $4.2 billion. Avery Dennison develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products for consumer and industrial markets, including Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, automated retail tag, labeling and branding systems, and specialty tapes and polymers.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to the subject matter; impact of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy, the Company's customers and business; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
AVERY DENNISON
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2003 financial statement presentation.
 
 
 


