FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20041019131730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated October 19, 2004, regarding its third quarter financial results, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access our webcast and teleconference call, please go to our website at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
On October 19, 2004, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ending September 25, 2004, along with earnings guidance for the current quarter and 2004 fiscal year, as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission and Canadian Department of Justice investigations, into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies, financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; development, introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings. The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) the degree to which higher raw material costs can be passed on to customers through price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (2) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products, particularly in the U.S. and Western Europe; (3) availability and cost of certain components used to manufacture adhesives used in some products sold by the Company, an extended shortage of which could disrupt production, resulting in a potentially significant loss of revenue and earnings; and (4) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive conditions in the label stock industry.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the Exhibit 99.1 "Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The Safe Harbor Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 11, 2004. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
PASADENA, Calif.  October 19, 2004  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported third quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.75, compared with $0.65 per share from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2003, reflecting an increase of approximately 15 percent.
 
"We are pleased to report double-digit increases in both revenue and earnings, with solid sales and volume growth in every major geographic region," said Philip M. Neal, chairman and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "While our pricing actions have not yet caught up with the increase in raw material costs that we have incurred, we expect margin improvement as we continue to implement price increases."
 
Financial highlights from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2004:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial highlights from continuing operations for the first nine months of 2004:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review:
 
Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials Sector
 
The Company's Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector reported sales of $857 million, an increase of approximately 13 percent over the third quarter of 2003. Ongoing volume growth contributed approximately 60 percent of the sector's revenue increase. The balance is due to the impact of currency translation, primarily the Euro, as well as a positive impact from price and mix. The North American pressure-sensitive roll materials business continued to report sales growth at a high single-digit rate compared with the year-ago third quarter. The operation generated solid growth marked by strong demand for film label materials, especially in the beverage market. Before the effect of currency translation, sales in the European pressure-sensitive roll materials business increased at a stronger pace than in the North American business, with approximately 10 percent growth over the prior year third quarter. Sales growth in Eastern European markets continued to exceed 20 percent, excluding the impact of currency translation.
 
The roll materials business in Asian markets continued to generate strong results, with sales growth in China again exceeding 40 percent compared with the year-ago third quarter. Sales growth in the Latin American pressure-sensitive roll materials business slowed to a high single-digit rate, before the impact of currency translation.
 
The worldwide specialty tapes business also slowed modestly, posting high single-digit sales growth before the impact of currency translation. Sales growth in the global graphics and reflective materials business slowed to a mid-single digit level, before the impact of currency translation.
 
Operating margin for the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector increased by 160 basis points compared with the prior-year third quarter, and improved 40 basis points sequentially over the second quarter of 2004, excluding restructuring charges, to reach 8.9 percent. The successful completion of Jackstdt integration activities in the second quarter drove the improvement in operating margin for the sector. Increased raw material costs were partially offset by pricing actions during the quarter, and additional price increases are currently being implemented.
 
Operations Review:
 
Consumer and Converted Products Sector
 
The Consumer and Converted Products sector reported sales from continuing operations of $517 million, reflecting growth of approximately 5 percent over the third quarter of 2003. Unit volume growth contributed approximately 75 percent of the increase, with the balance due to a benefit from currency translation, primarily the Euro, which was offset by a negative impact from price and mix.
 
Sales in the global office products business declined at a low single-digit rate compared with the same period a year ago, excluding the impact of currency translation. The decline is due to the previously announced share loss at a large retailer, which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2003. The retail information services business continued to report strong double-digit results for the third quarter, with sales increasing approximately 20 percent over the year-ago third quarter, excluding the impact of currency translation. The retail information services business continues to expand its capabilities to serve apparel manufacturers and retailers in markets around the world with the recent acquisition of Rinke Etiketten, a leading woven-label manufacturer based in Germany.
 
Operating margin from continuing operations for the Consumer and Converted Products sector declined by 40 basis points compared with the year-ago third quarter, and decreased 70 basis points sequentially over the second quarter of 2004, excluding restructuring charges, to 11.5 percent. The decline from the year-ago third quarter is due to lost volume in the higher margin office products business, price declines and raw material cost increases, which were partially offset by productivity improvements. The sequential decrease is due to the typical seasonal volume decline in the retail information services business, as well as rising raw material costs. As previously announced, the Company expects to recover the rising raw material costs in the office products business with price increases that it plans to implement in January 2005.
 
Outlook:
 
Avery Dennison announced its earnings expectation for the fourth quarter of 2004 in the range of $0.74 to $0.80 per share, bringing the Company's full-year earnings projection for 2004 to a range of $2.95 to $3.01 per share, excluding restructuring charges. The earnings expectation is based on a modest slowdown in underlying demand during the fourth quarter, and a projection of revenue growth in the quarter of 7 to 10 percent.
 
The Company advised that a current global supply shortage of acrylic monomers, a component used in making some of its adhesive materials, is affecting certain of its materials businesses. The Company indicated that, based on current information, the shortage is not expected to have a material impact on fourth quarter 2004 earnings and that production of Avery Dennison products has been affected minimally, but it said that a potentially significant downside risk related to this shortage does exist.
 
"We are making progress in meeting our near-term challenges and remain confident about our opportunities for long-term growth," said Neal. "At the same time, we are addressing
 
the effects of rising raw material costs head-on as we implement price increases and execute further measures to improve productivity."
 
"Meanwhile, our Horizons program continues to generate new ideas and additional sales that are helping us meet our aggressive top-line growth goals. We remain committed to investing in our radio frequency identification (RFID) business which is our largest growth opportunity in more than a decade. Pressure-sensitive materials provide an ideal vehicle for carrying an RFID chip and antenna, and Avery Dennison is developing the production capabilities and technological expertise that will enable us to manufacture hundreds of millions of electronic labels annually. During the third quarter we created a separate business unit dedicated to the RFID label business, and we are on track to produce and begin shipping our proprietary RFID inlays to label converters serving leading consumer products companies and retailers by the end of the year."
 
Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and innovative self-adhesive solutions for consumer products and label materials. Based in Pasadena, Calif., the Company had 2003 sales of $4.8 billion. Avery Dennison develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products for consumer and industrial markets, including Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, automated retail tag, labeling and branding systems, and specialty tapes and polymers.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission and Canadian Department of Justice
 
investigations, into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; development, introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings. The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) the degree to which higher raw material costs can be passed on to customers through price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (2) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products, particularly in the U.S. and Western Europe; (3) availability and cost of certain components used to manufacture adhesives used in some products sold by the Company, an extended shortage of which could disrupt production, resulting in a potentially significant loss of revenue and earnings; and (4) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive conditions in the label stock industry.
 
 
A-1
 
AVERY DENNISON
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Other expense for 2004 YTD includes $35.2 million of restructuring costs, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges.
 
Other expense (income), net, of ($3.8 million) for 2003 YTD includes gain from settlement of a lawsuit of ($9 million), partially offset by net losses from disposition of fixed assets, asset impairment charges and costs associated with a plant closure of $5.2 million.
A-2
 
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Avery Dennison uses the non-GAAP measures presented to evaluate and manage the Company's operations internally. Avery Dennison is also providing this information to assist investors in performing additional financial analysis that is consistent with financial models developed by research analysts who follow the Company.
 
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
 
AVERY DENNISON
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
A-4
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-6
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2004 financial statement presentation.
 
A-7
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2004 financial statement presentation.
 


