FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20040127135840.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
On January 27, 2004, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ending December 27, 2003, along with earnings guidance for the current quarter and 2004 fiscal year, as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated January 27, 2004, regarding its fourth quarter and fiscal year-end 2003 financial results, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under Item 12 of Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access our webcast and teleconference call, please go to our website at http://www.investors.averydennison.com.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and exhibit 99.1 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings pertaining to the subject matter; impact of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy, the Company's customers and business; successful integration of acquired companies; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the Exhibit 99 "Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The Safe Harbor Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 28, 2003. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 27, 2004
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
PASADENA, Calif.  January 27, 2004  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported fourth quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.59, compared with $0.56 per share for the prior-year fourth quarter. Excluding a special charge and a gain resulting from a divestiture, fourth quarter 2003 earnings were $0.65 per share, exceeding the Company's previously announced expectations for the quarter.
 
"We are pleased to report better-than-expected top-line growth and earnings for the fourth quarter," said Philip M. Neal, chairman and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "While 2003 proved to be a year of persistently challenging market conditions across most of our businesses, we took aggressive steps to further reduce costs and invest in innovative programs for top-line growth."
 
"Our Horizons growth program has taken off throughout the Company and has created hundreds of new applications and products. During its first full year of implementation, this fast-moving process generated approximately $50 million
 
of annualized incremental sales by the end of 2003, achieving our ambitious initial goals," said Neal.
 
Financial highlights for the fourth quarter of 2003:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review:
 
The Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector posted revenue growth of approximately 14 percent over the same period in 2002, with reported sales for the sector of $784.7 million in the fourth quarter. Approximately two-thirds of the sales growth is attributable to the impact of currency translation, primarily the Euro.
 
Sales in the North American pressure-sensitive roll materials business improved on a sequential basis, with fourth quarter revenue unchanged from from the prior-year period, compared with the low single-digit rate of decline reported in the second and third quarters of 2003. Before the impact of currency translation, sales in the European pressure-sensitive roll materials business increased at a low single-digit rate, driven by continued rapid growth in Eastern European markets, which was offset by modest growth in other parts of the region. The roll materials business in China reported another robust quarter, with sales growth of approximately 45 percent compared with the year-ago fourth quarter. Sales in the roll materials business in Latin America increased approximately 25 percent over the prior-year fourth quarter, excluding the impact of currency translation.
 
Before the impact of currency translation, the global specialty tape business achieved double-digit sales growth during the quarter, while the global graphics and reflective materials business achieved solid mid single-digit sales growth.
 
Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, for the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector declined 150 basis points, compared with the prior-year fourth quarter, and 90 basis points sequentially (See attachment A-4, titled "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information"). More than half of the year-on-year decline is attributable to costs associated with the start-up of expanded operations at two manufacturing plants in Europe and a more challenging pricing environment in the European pressure-sensitive materials market.
 
The Consumer and Converted Products sector reported sales of $497.6 million in the fourth quarter, reflecting growth from continuing operations of more than 11 percent over the fourth quarter a year ago, with approximately one-third of the increase attributable to the impact of currency translation. Reported sales growth benefited from a positive impact of approximately 2 points from acquisitions net of several small product line divestitures.
 
Sales in the worldwide office products business increased slightly, before the impact of currency translation, reflecting an improvement over the modest revenue declines reported in previous quarters of 2003. Sales in the retail information services business increased by approximately 13 percent compared with the year-ago fourth quarter, excluding acquisitions, divestitures and currency translation, reflecting a substantial improvement over the preceding three quarters in 2003.
 
Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, for the Consumer and Converted Products sector increased 10 basis points compared with the prior-year fourth quarter, and increased 90 basis points sequentially (See attachment A-4, titled "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information").
 
Financial highlights for the year:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
Avery Dennison announced that it expects earnings for the first quarter of 2004 to be in the range of $0.60 to $0.67 per share, with an estimate of annual earnings for 2004 in the range of $2.75 to $3.10 per share, excluding the effect of integration-related restructuring charges. The Company stated that it expects to take final charges of $30 million to $35 million associated with the Jackstdt integration during the first half of the year, which are expected to have a negative impact on earnings of $0.22 to $0.25 per share.
 
Avery Dennison said that its outlook for 2004 reflects general market expectations of improved economic trends compared with the prior year, and is based on other key assumptions, including reported revenue growth of 4 to 6 percent in the first quarter and 3.5 to 6.5 percent for the full year, and operating margin in the range of 8 to 9 percent in the first quarter and 9 to 10 percent for the full year.
 
"We are well positioned for the future, as we continue to aggressively develop new products and services to grow our businesses in 2004," said Neal. "The early success of our first Horizons projects provides us with a proven platform for achieving new levels of top-line growth. Employees throughout the Company are energized to work closely with customers to develop and execute creative solutions to meet customer needs. We have solid programs and
 
processes in place that are designed to drive sales growth and improved profitability in 2004 and beyond."
 
Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and innovative self-adhesive solutions for consumer products and label materials. Based in Pasadena, Calif., the Company had 2003 sales of $4.8 billion. Avery Dennison develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products for consumer and industrial markets, including Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, automated retail tag, labeling and branding systems, and specialty tapes and polymers.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to the subject matter; impact of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy, the Company's customers and business; successful integration of acquired companies; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
 
A-1
 
AVERY DENNISON
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
Other expense, net, for 2003 YTD includes $30.5 million of asset impairment charges, restructuring costs, lease cancellation charges and costs associated with several product line divestitures, partially offset by a gain from settlement of a lawsuit during the second quarter of 2003. Other expense for 2002 YTD includes $32.1 million of asset impairment charges, restructuring costs and lease cancellation charges.
A-2
 
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Avery Dennison uses the non-GAAP measures presented to evaluate and manage the Company's operations internally. Avery Dennison is also providing this information to assist investors in performing additional financial analysis that is consistent with financial models developed by research analysts who follow the Company.
 
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
 
AVERY DENNISON
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
A-4
 
 
 
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2003 includes asset impairment charges, restructuring costs, lease cancellation charges and costs associated with several product line divestitures of $34.3 million, of which the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment recorded $13.1 million, the Consumer and Converted Products segment recorded $20.8 million, and Corporate recorded $.4 million.
(1)
 
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2002 includes asset impairment charges and restructuring costs of $16.9 million, of which the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment recorded $11 million and the Consumer and Converted Products segment recorded $5.9 million.
 
Certain prior years have been reclassified to conform with the 2003 financial statement presentation.
(2)
 
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
Operating income for 2003 includes asset impairment charges, restructuring costs, lease cancellation charges and costs associated with several product line divestitures of $30.5 million, partially offset by a gain from settlement of a lawsuit during the second quarter of 2003, of which the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment recorded $13.6 million, the Consumer and Converted Products segment recorded $21.8 million, and Corporate recorded ($4.9 million).
(1)
 
Operating income for 2002 includes asset impairment charges, restructuring costs and lease cancellation charges of $32.1 million, of which the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment recorded $22 million and the Consumer and Converted Products segment recorded $10.1 million.
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2003 financial statement presentation.
(2)
 
 
 
A-6
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2003 financial statement presentation.
 
A-7
 
 
 


