FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20040720113745.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
On July 20, 2004, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ending June 26, 2004, along with earnings guidance for the current quarter and 2004 fiscal year, as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated July 20, 2004, regarding its second quarter financial results, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under Item 12 of Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access our webcast and teleconference call, please go to our website at http://www.investors.averydennison.com.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission and Canadian Department of Justice investigations, into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof; impact of epidemiological events such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies, financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the Exhibit 99.1 "Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The Safe Harbor Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 11, 2004. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 20, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
PASADENA, Calif.  July 20, 2004  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported second quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.68, compared with $0.71 per share for the second quarter of 2003. Excluding a previously announced, acquisition-related restructuring charge in the quarter, second quarter 2004 earnings were $0.78 per share, which includes a $0.04 per share benefit from a one-time tax settlement.
 
"Our second quarter results mark Avery Dennison's return to double-digit earnings growth from operations," said Philip M. Neal, chairman and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "We have achieved a number of milestones this quarter, including the completion of integration activities related to the Jackstdt acquisition. We are experiencing solid growth across the Company as economic conditions throughout our businesses and geographic markets improve substantially, with the exception of some softness in the office products business."
 
Financial highlights for the second quarter of 2004:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial highlights for the first six months of 2004:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review:
 
The Company's Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector reported sales of $854 million, reflecting growth of approximately 15 percent over the second quarter of 2003. Approximately 75 percent of the sector's revenue growth is attributable to ongoing volume growth. The balance is attributable to
 
the impact of currency translation, primarily the Euro, which was offset by negative price and mix. The North American pressure-sensitive roll materials business reported sales growth at a high single-digit rate compared with the year-ago second quarter. Contributing to the operation's growth is the expansion of its beverage label business, as major beer brewers are beginning to transition to pressure-sensitive adhesive labels for their bottles. Before the effect of currency translation, sales in the European pressure-sensitive roll materials business increased at a high single-digit rate. Business in Eastern European markets continued to be especially strong, with growth during the second quarter at rates exceeding 20 percent.
 
The roll materials business in Asia continued to report exceptionally strong results, with sales growth in China of more than 40 percent compared with the year-ago second quarter, and sales growth exceeding 30 percent in other Asian markets. The Latin American pressure-sensitive roll materials business also grew at a double-digit rate, reporting sales growth of approximately 16 percent before the impact of currency translation. The worldwide specialty tapes business posted double-digit sales growth before the impact of currency translation, while the global graphics and reflective materials business continued to improve with high single-digit sales growth, before the impact of currency translation.
 
Operating margin, excluding the restructuring charge, for the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector improved by 110 basis points compared with the prior-year second quarter, and improved 30 basis points
 
sequentially over the first quarter of 2004. The improvement in operating margin for the sector is attributable to successful execution of productivity improvement efforts, particularly in Europe. The Company expects additional improvement in operating margin for the sector during the second half of the year as a result of continued productivity improvement and increased pricing which are expected to offset higher raw material costs.
(See Attachment A-4: "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information").
 
The Consumer and Converted Products sector reported sales from continuing operations of $508 million, reflecting an increase of approximately 4 percent over the prior-year second quarter. Approximately 75 percent of the sector's revenue growth is attributable to ongoing volume growth. The balance is attributable to the impact of currency translation, primarily the Euro, which was offset by negative price and mix.
 
Sales in the global office products business declined approximately 3 percent compared with same period a year ago, excluding the impact of currency translation. The decline is attributable to the previously announced share loss at a large retailer in the fourth quarter of 2003. The retail information services business reported strong results for the second quarter, with sales increasing approximately 10 percent over the year-ago second quarter, excluding the impact of currency translation. This retail services business continues to expand in markets around the world as leading apparel manufacturers and retailers enhance the brand identity of their merchandise sold with labels, tags and tickets produced by Avery Dennison.
 
Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, for the Consumer and Converted Products sector declined by 10 basis points compared with the year-ago second quarter, and improved 60 basis points sequentially over the first quarter of 2004. The decrease is due to margin declines in the office products business, offset by strong results reported by the retail information services business. The Company expects continued pressure on operating margin for the sector during the remainder of the year as raw material costs increase for the office products business before planned price increases are implemented in January, 2005. Avery Dennison expects to offset this pressure with higher sales and continual productivity efforts.
(See Attachment A-4: "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information").
 
The Company said that in addition to the ongoing U.S. Department of Justice and European Commission investigations of the paper products and label stock industries, it was recently informed that the Competition Bureau of the Canadian Department of Justice has commenced an investigation into the label stock industry. Avery Dennison is cooperating with these investigations.
 
Outlook:
 
Avery Dennison announced that it is raising the lower end of its earnings expectation by $0.10 per share for 2004, bringing the Company's full-year earnings projection for 2004 to a range of $2.90 to $3.10 per share, before the impact of restructuring charges. This reflects the benefit of the reduced tax rate and better-than-expected results in the second quarter.
 
The revised full-year guidance is based on expected earnings in the second half of 2004 in the range of $1.45 to $1.65 per share, with a range of $0.72 to $0.77 per share for the third quarter.
 
"We are on a solid path to achieving our primary goal of top-line growth, as order patterns continue to show strength in the early part of the third quarter," said Neal. "Our Horizons top-line growth initiative, which now has been rolled out across the Company in virtually every operation around the world, is one of the most successful growth generating programs we have ever implemented. The energy and enthusiasm that is generated by the Horizons process at Avery Dennison is truly remarkable, as new teams of employees are being created continually to develop and launch products and services in accelerated timeframes. More than 100 Horizons teams are working on current projects, with a total of more than 600 teams having been formed since the program was introduced."
 
"We remain committed to leveraging our technological expertise to create state-of-the-art products for the future, which includes our developing RFID (radio frequency identification) business," said Neal. "Pressure-sensitive adhesive tags and labels are ideal vehicles for carrying an RFID chip and antenna. As one of the world's largest manufacturers of pressure-sensitive adhesive labeling materials, we are uniquely positioned to capture a meaningful share of this potentially large, new market."
 
Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and innovative self-adhesive solutions for consumer products and label materials.
 
Based in Pasadena, Calif., the Company had 2003 sales of $4.8 billion. Avery Dennison develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products for consumer and industrial markets, including Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, automated retail tag, labeling and branding systems, and specialty tapes and polymers.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission and Canadian Department of Justice investigations, into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof; impact of epidemiological events such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
 
A-1
 
AVERY DENNISON
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Other expense (income), net, of ($4 million) for the second quarter of 2003 includes gain from settlement of a lawsuit of ($9 million), partially offset by net losses from disposition of fixed assets, asset impairment charges and costs associated with a plant closure of $5 million.
 
Other expense for 2004 YTD includes $35.2 million of restructuring costs, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges.
A-2
 
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Avery Dennison uses the non-GAAP measures presented to evaluate and manage the Company's operations internally. Avery Dennison is also providing this information to assist investors in performing additional financial analysis that is consistent with financial models developed by research analysts who follow the Company.
 
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
A-4
 
 
 
Operating income for the second quarter of 2003 includes gain from settlement of a lawsuit of ($9 million), partially offset by net losses from disposition of fixed assets, asset impairment charges and costs associated with a plant closure of $5 million. The Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment recorded $.5 million, the Consumer and Converted Products segment recorded $1 million, and Corporate recorded ($5.5 million).
 
 
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
Operating income for 2003 includes gain from settlement of a lawsuit of ($9 million), partially offset by net losses from disposition of fixed assets, asset impairment charges and costs associated with a plant closure of $5 million. The Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials segment recorded $.5 million, the Consumer and Converted Products segment recorded $1 million, and Corporate recorded ($5.5 million).
 
 
 
 
A-6
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2004 financial statement presentation.
 
A-7
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2004 financial statement presentation
 


