FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20040420121739.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
On April 20, 2004, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the quarter ending March 27, 2004, along with earnings guidance for the current quarter and 2004 fiscal year, as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated April 20, 2004, regarding its first quarter financial results, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under Item 12 of Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access our webcast and teleconference call, please go to our website at http://www.investors.averydennison.com.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to the subject matter; impact of epidemiological events such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the Exhibit 99.1 "Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 11, 2004. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 20, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
PASADENA, Calif.  April 20, 2004  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported first quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.52, compared with $0.71 per share for the first quarter of 2003. Excluding a previously announced acquisition-related restructuring charge in the quarter, first quarter 2004 earnings were $0.68 per share, exceeding the high end of the Company's earnings expectations for the quarter.
 
"Our better-than-expected sales and earnings in the first quarter of 2004 are a clear sign that our business is returning to our planned levels of growth," said Philip M. Neal, chairman and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "The Company's Horizons growth program is producing new innovations and generating sales in markets around the world, and at the same time, demand for existing products throughout many of our operations is continuing to improve. While our office products business did not reach targeted sales levels, we are aggressively taking actions to confront the challenges faced by this business."
 
Key results for the first quarter of 2004 include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector reported sales of $846 million, reflecting growth of approximately 17 percent over the first quarter of 2003. Approximately 60 percent of the sector's revenue growth is attributable to the impact of currency translation, primarily the Euro. The North American pressure-sensitive roll materials business posted strong results in the quarter with mid single-digit sales growth, excluding the impact of currency translation, reflecting solid improvement over the rate of growth experienced in the fourth quarter of 2003. Before the effect of currency
 
translation, sales in the European pressure-sensitive roll materials business increased at a mid single-digit rate, primarily driven by growth of more than 20 percent in Eastern European markets.
 
The roll materials business in Asia continued to report extremely robust results, with sales growth in China of more than 50 percent over the year-ago first quarter. The Latin American pressure-sensitive roll materials business grew at a double-digit rate, before the impact of currency translation. The worldwide specialty tapes business continued to report double-digit sales growth, while the worldwide graphics and reflective materials business reported improved mid-single digit sales growth, excluding the impact of currency translation.
 
Operating margin, excluding the restructuring charge, for the Pressure-sensitive Adhesives and Materials sector declined 20 basis points compared with the prior-year first quarter, and improved 180 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2003. The sequential expansion in operating margin is attributable to higher sales and productivity improvements in the sector. The Company expects significant improvement in operating margin for the sector during the second half of the year due to cost savings associated with the closure of two European roll materials manufacturing plants.
(See Attachment A-4, titled "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information").
 
The Consumer and Converted Products sector reported sales of $442 million, reflecting a decline of approximately 4 percent over the prior-year first quarter. The revenue decline for the sector was partially offset by a positive contribution from currency translation of 4 points during the quarter.
 
Sales in the global office products business declined approximately 12 percent compared with the year-ago first quarter, excluding the impact of currency translation. The decline is attributable to a previously announced share loss and increased fourth quarter buy-forwards by office products customers, as well as other inventory reductions, the discontinuation of a small line of paper products and weak market conditions. The Company anticipates stronger sales for its office products business in the second half of 2004, driven by share gains at several key accounts and new product introductions. The retail information services business reported solid results for the first quarter, with an increase in demand in the final month of the period.
 
Operating margin, excluding the restructuring charge, for the Consumer and Converted Products sector declined 270 basis points compared with the year-ago first quarter and 120 basis points compared with the fourth quarter of 2003. The decline is due to reduced volume and the negative impact of price and mix, partially offset by productivity improvements. The Company expects significant improvement in operating margin for the sector by the end of 2004 as a result of increased sales and cost reductions.
 
Avery Dennison announced that for the second quarter of 2004, it expects earnings to be in the range of $0.70 to $0.75 per share, excluding a restructuring charge to earnings in the quarter related to the completion of integration activities for the Jackstdt acquisition. Based on first quarter of 2004 results, Avery Dennison is updating its earnings-per-share guidance for the full year to $2.80 to $3.10 per share, excluding restructuring charges, from its previously announced expectation of $2.75 to $3.10 per share, excluding restructuring charges.
 
"Based on our positive first quarter results, we are confident that our skilled execution of our growth and productivity strategies will deliver a successful year for Avery Dennison," said Neal. "We are well positioned to take advantage of the expected continued improvement in global economic conditions."
 
"Our commitment to top-line growth is as strong as ever, as our research and development activities are focused on creating breakthrough technologies related to radio frequency identification and other applications," said Neal. "We are steadily filling an active pipeline with new products and industry-leading services in markets that are positioned for excellent, long-term growth."
 
Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and innovative self-adhesive solutions for consumer products and label materials. Based in Pasadena, Calif., the Company had 2003 sales of $4.8 billion. Avery Dennison develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products for consumer and industrial markets, including Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, automated retail tag, labeling and branding systems, and specialty tapes and polymers.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to price and availability of raw materials; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to the subject matter; impact of epidemiological events such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
 
AVERY DENNISON
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Avery Dennison uses the non-GAAP measures presented to evaluate and manage the Company's operations internally. Avery Dennison is also providing this information to assist investors in performing additional financial analysis that is consistent with financial models developed by research analysts who follow the Company.
 
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
AVERY DENNISON
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2004 financial statement presentation.
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2004 financial statement presentation.
 
 


