FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20050726130045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated July 26, 2005, regarding its preliminary financial results for the second quarter, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access our webcast and teleconference call, please go to our website at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
On July 26, 2005, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its preliminary financial results for the second quarter ending July 2, 2005, along with earnings guidance for the 2005 fiscal year, as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission ("EC") and Canadian Department of Justice investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies, financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; development, introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
The financial information presented in this news release represents preliminary financial results.
 
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities; (2) the degree to which higher raw material costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (3) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; and (4) ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the Exhibit 99.1 "Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The Safe Harbor Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 17, 2005. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PASADENA, Calif.  July 26, 2005  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported second quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.89, compared with $0.68 for the second quarter of 2004. The second quarter 2005 earnings include a negative impact of $0.02 per share from asset impairments, transition costs associated with a previously announced plant shutdown, and restructuring costs, while prior-year second quarter earnings include a negative impact of $0.10 per share from a restructuring charge primarily related to the integration of an acquisition. Excluding these costs, second quarter earnings per share increased by more than 16 percent over the comparable quarter.
(See Attachment A-3: "Preliminary Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures".)
 
Sales for the second quarter of $1.4 billion were in line with the Company's expectations, an increase of approximately 7 percent over the same quarter a year ago, with core unit volumes increasing by approximately 1 percent. Profitability increased due to both improved gross profit margin and control of operating expenses.
 
"Our disciplined pricing actions and focus on expense management have proven effective in the short term, particularly in light of soft market conditions," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "We remain committed to our long-term strategies to accelerate top-line growth and continue productivity improvement."
 
Financial highlights for the second quarter of 2005:
 
 
 
 
in the emerging markets of Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe were up 13 percent over the same period last year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial highlights for the first six months of 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
Segment results
 
The Company's Pressure-sensitive Materials segment reported sales of approximately $806 million, up nearly 9 percent over the second quarter of 2004. Slightly more than half of the increase in segment revenue reflects unit volume growth and a positive contribution from price and mix. The balance of the growth is attributable to the impact of currency translation, primarily the Euro.
 
Before the effects of currency translation, sales in the North American pressure-sensitive roll materials business declined by approximately 3 percent, with the benefit of price increases more than offset by a decline in volume. The volume decline affected most business segments within the North American pressure-sensitive roll materials business with the exception of films, which continued to benefit from growth in the beverage label market.
 
Sales in the European pressure-sensitive roll materials business grew approximately 12 percent in local currency, driven by strong unit volume growth, due in part to share gain related to a paper industry strike in Finland that negatively affected some of the Company's competitors. Strong growth in the Eastern European region also contributed to this result. The roll materials business in Asia reported double digit growth in local currency sales, while this business in Latin America grew at a high single digit rate. Sales in the graphics and reflective materials business declined by approximately 2 percent before the effect of currency.
 
Excluding restructuring and asset impairment costs, operating margin for the segment increased to 9.4 percent compared with 8.6 percent a year ago, due to
 
productivity improvement initiatives, including a plant closure completed in Europe during the second quarter of 2004, as well as spending controls. The benefit of price increases covered higher raw material costs.
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
 
The Office and Consumer Products segment reported sales of approximately $300 million, an increase of more than 4 percent over the second quarter of 2004. Slightly more than half of the revenue growth for the segment reflects selling price increases. The balance of the sales growth is attributable to the impact of currency translation, primarily the Euro.
 
The segment benefited from earlier than usual shipment of back-to-school orders. An estimated $10 million in customer orders related to the back-to-school season were shipped earlier than the prior year, shifting an estimated $0.03 of earnings per share from the third quarter into the second.
 
Excluding restructuring and plant transition costs, operating margin for the segment increased to 17.0 percent compared with 14.1 percent a year ago, reflecting productivity improvement efforts and spending controls. Price increases, effective January 1 of this year, have covered cumulative raw material cost inflation for the segment.
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
 
The Retail Information Services segment reported sales of approximately $182 million, an increase of slightly more than 10 percent over the second quarter of 2004. Approximately two-thirds of the growth is due to the combined effect of the
 
Rinke acquisition and currency translation, with the balance due to core unit volume growth. Excluding restructuring costs, operating margin for the segment increased to 10.4 percent in the second quarter, compared with 10.1 percent a year ago, reflecting productivity improvement efforts, including movement of production from Hong Kong to lower cost operations in mainland China, as well as spending controls.
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
 
Businesses in the other specialty converting group reported sales of approximately $131 million, comparable to the prior year. Excluding asset impairment, operating margin for these businesses declined to 1.9 percent from 8.4 percent a year ago, largely due to higher spending related to the Company's radio frequency identification (RFID) division.
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
 
Outlook
 
Reflecting improved profitability and the reduction in its tax rate, Avery Dennison is raising its earnings-per-share guidance for the full year to $2.95 to $3.20, from its previously announced expectation of $2.85 to $3.15. The Company's earnings guidance excludes the impact of restructuring and asset impairment charges. Year-to-date charges and transition costs, net of gain on sale of assets, total $0.06 per share. Additionally, the Company anticipates modest costs associated with restructuring actions in the third quarter of 2005, with the possibility of more significant actions in the fourth quarter of 2005. The Company said its outlook anticipates continued weakness in core volume growth, with the expectation of relatively stable raw material costs.
 
"Given modest expectations for unit volume growth in the short term, we will continue to focus on expense management and we are in the process of evaluating new opportunities for reducing our cost structure," said Scarborough. "While some of the second quarter spending cuts are not sustainable over the long term, we expect to secure additional sources of cost savings as a result of a number of key initiatives currently underway across the Company."
 
"Our long-term opportunities for growth are excellent. We are confident that improved economic conditions, our leadership position in growing emerging markets, innovations from our Horizons growth program and the expansion of our RFID business will accelerate demand for our products and services in the future," said Scarborough.
 
Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive labeling materials, office products and retail tag, ticketing and branding systems. Based in Pasadena, Calif., Avery Dennison is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2004 sales of $5.3 billion. Avery Dennison employs more than 21,000 individuals in 47 countries worldwide who apply the Company's technologies to develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for both consumer and industrial markets.
 
Products offered by Avery Dennison include Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, labels for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and durable goods applications, brand identification and supply chain management products for the retail and apparel industries, and specialty tapes and polymers.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission ("EC") and Canadian Department of Justice investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies, financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; development, introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
 
The financial information presented in this news release represents preliminary financial results.
 
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities; (2) the degree to which higher raw material costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (3) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; and (4) ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
 
 
 
A-1
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
Other expense for the second quarter of 2004 includes $13.8 of restructuring costs, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges.
 
Other expense, net, for 2005 YTD includes $8.8 of restructuring costs and asset impairment charges, partially offset by gain on sale of assets of $(3.4).
Other expense for 2004 YTD includes $35.2 of restructuring costs, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges.
 
A-2
 
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Avery Dennison uses the non-GAAP measures presented to evaluate and manage the Company's operations internally. Avery Dennison is also providing this information to assist investors in performing additional financial analysis that is consistent with financial models developed by research analysts who follow the Company.
 
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
 
 
A-4
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
 
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
 
 
 
A-6
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
A-7
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 


