FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20050504164715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Business Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On April 28, 2005, the Compensation and Executive Personnel Committee ("Committee") of Avery Dennison Corporation (the "Company") approved the actions described below with regard to titles and compensation matters for Messrs. Scarborough and Neal:
 
 
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On April 28, 2005, the Board of Directors approved the Company's amended and restated Bylaws effective immediately. A copy of the amended and restated Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 3.2.1 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference. The following description of the changes to the Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by the reference to the text of such changes contained in the amended and restated Bylaws:
 
First, Article II, Section 14 of the Bylaws relating to nomination and stockholder business at meetings of stockholders was amended to make some clarifying and additional changes, including to provide that in order to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder for purposes of presenting nominations and business at a meeting of stockholders, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
 
Second, Article V Section 6 of the Bylaws was amended to provide that the chairman of the board of directors is permitted, but not required, to be the chief executive officer of the Company. Similarly, Article V Section 7 of the Bylaws was amended to provide that the president is permitted, but not required, to be the chief executive officer and/or the chief officer operating of the Company.
 
Lastly, the second and third paragraphs of Article VII, Section 1 of the Bylaws, relating to the rights of stockholders to request a list of stockholders, were deleted because they were potentially inconsistent with Section 220 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which governs the rights of stockholders to request lists of stockholders and other books and records of a Delaware corporation.
 
Section 9  Financial Statement and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized
 
Dated: May 4, 2005
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.2.1
 
 
 
 
Section 1.
Registered Office.
 
The registered office of Avery Dennison Corporation (hereinafter called the "corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of the registered agent at that address shall be The Corporation Trust Company.
 
Section 2.
Principal Office.
 
The principal executive office for the transaction of the business of the corporation is hereby fixed and located in Los Angeles County, California. The board of directors is hereby granted full power and authority to change said principal executive office from one location to another within or without the State of California.
 
Section 3.
Other Offices.
 
The corporation may also have offices at such other places within or without the State of Delaware as the board of directors may from time to time determine, or the business of the corporation may require.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Place of Meetings.
 
Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place, if any, within or outside the State of Delaware designated by the board of directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
 
Section 2.
Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
 
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on the last Thursday in April of each year at 1:30 p.m. of said day, or on such other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, and at such other time as shall be determined by the board of directors. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the board of directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such annual meeting of stockholders.
 
Section 3.
Special Meetings.
 
A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the board of directors, or by a majority of the directors or by a committee authorized by the board to do so. Any previously scheduled special meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the board of directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such special meeting of the stockholders. Business transacted at any special meeting of the stockholders shall be limited to the purpose stated in the notice of meeting.
 
Section 4.
Notice of Stockholders' Meetings.
 
All notices of meetings of stockholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 5 of this Article II not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting being noticed. The notice shall specify the place, date and hour of the meeting and (i) in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the board of directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for action by the stockholders. The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the name of any nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, management intends to present for election.
 
Section 5.
Manner of Giving Notice; Affidavit of Notice.
 
Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given either personally or by mail or telegraphic or other written communication or by electronic transmission, charges prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at the address of such stockholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the stockholder to the corporation for the purpose of notice. Whenever notice is required to be given to any stockholder to whom (1) notice of 2 consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such person during the period between such 2 consecutive annual meetings, or (2) all, and at least 2, payments (if sent by first-class mail) of dividends or interests or securities during a 12 month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at such person's address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable, the giving of such notice shall not be required. If any such person shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth such person's then current address, the requirement that notice be given to such person shall be reinstated. If mailed, notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when delivered personally or deposited in the United States mail or sent by telegram or other means of written communication.
 
An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any stockholders' meeting shall be executed by the secretary, assistant secretary or any transfer agent of the corporation giving such notice, and shall be filed and maintained in the minute book of the corporation.
 
Section 6.
Quorum.
 
The presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The stockholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the shares required to constitute a quorum.
 
Section 7.
Adjourned Meeting and Notice Thereof.
 
Any stockholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the Chairman of the meetingbut in the absence of a quorum, no other business may be transacted at such meeting, except as provided in Section 6 of this Article II.
,
 
When any meeting of stockholders, either annual or special, is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at a meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed, or unless the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days from the date set for the original meeting. Notice of any such adjourned meeting, if required, shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of this Article II. At any adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
 
Section 8.
Voting.
 
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of this Article II. Such vote may be by voice vote or by ballot, at the discretion of the Chairman of the meeting. Any stockholder entitled to vote on any matter (other than the election of directors) may vote part of the shares in favor of the proposal and refrain from voting the remaining shares or vote them against the proposal; but, if the stockholder fails to specify the number of shares such stockholder is voting affirmatively, it will be conclusively presumed that the stockholder's approving vote is with respect to all shares such stockholder is entitled to vote. If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority voting power of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on any matter shall be the act of the stockholders, unless the vote of a greater percentage or voting by classes is required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "General Corporation Law") or the certificate of incorporation or the certificate of designations of preferences as to any preferred stock, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the corporation, or applicable law or pursuant to any rule or regulation applicable to the corporation or its securities.
 
At a stockholders' meeting involving the election of directors, no stockholder shall be entitled to cumulate (i.e., cast for any one or more candidates a number of votes greater than the number of the stockholder's shares). The candidates receiving the highest number of votes, up to the number of directors to be elected, shall be elected.
 
Section 9.
Waiver of Notice or Consent by Absent Stockholders.
 
The transactions of any meeting of stockholders, either annual or special, however called and noticed, and wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either in person or by proxy, and if, either before or after the meeting, each person entitled to vote, not present in person or by proxy, gives a waiver of notice or a consent to the holding of the meeting, or an approval of the minutes thereof. The waiver of notice or consent need not specify either the business to be transacted or the purpose of any annual or special meeting of stockholders. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made part of the minutes of the meeting.
 
Attendance of a person at a meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person objects, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, and except that attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters not included in the notice of the meeting if such objection is expressly made at the meeting.
 
Section 10.
No Stockholder Action by Written Consent Without a Meeting.
 
Stockholders may take action only at a regular or special meeting of stockholders.
 
Section 11.
Record Date for Stockholder Notice and Voting.
 
For purposes of determining the holders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days prior to the date of any such meeting, and in such case only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to notice and to vote, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date fixed as aforesaid, except as otherwise provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law.
 
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
 
Section 12.
Proxies.
 
Every person entitled to vote for directors or on any other matter shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by proxy. Without limiting the manner in which a proxy may be granted, a stockholder may grant a proxy in the following manners: (i) by executing a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy or (ii) by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to a person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided however that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. A written proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or electronic transmission or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney in fact. A proxy which does not state that it is irrevocable shall continue in full force and effect unless (i) revoked by the person executing it, prior to the vote pursuant thereto, by a writing or electronic transmission delivered to the corporation stating that the proxy is revoked or by a subsequent proxy executed by, or attendance at the meeting and voting in person by, the person executing the proxy, or (ii) notice of the death or incapacity of the maker of such proxy is received by the corporation before the vote pursuant thereto is counted; provided, however, that no such proxy shall be valid after the expiration of three years from the date of such proxy, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
 
Section 13.
Inspectors of Election
;
Opening and Closing the Polls.
 
The board of directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law.
 
The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
 
Section 14.
Nomination and Stockholder Business
 
(A) . (1) Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the board of directors or any committee thereof or (c) by any stockholder of the corporation who was a stockholder of record of the corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Bylaw is delivered to the secretary of the corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
 
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the board of directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 90
th
day, nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 70 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to such annual meeting or the 10
th
day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and (ii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The foregoing notice requirements of this Bylaw shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation.
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the board of directors of the corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but
 
only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10
th
day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
 
(B) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (2) provided that the board of directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Bylaw is delivered to the secretary of the corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the board of directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120
Special Meetings of Stockholders
th
day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to such special meeting or the 10
th
day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
(C) . (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (A)(2)(c)(iv) of this Bylaw) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation. For purposes of this Bylaw, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
General
 
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Powers.
 
Subject to the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and any limitations in the certificate of incorporation and these bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
 
Without prejudice to such general powers, but subject to the same limitations, it is hereby expressly declared that the directors shall have the power and authority to:
 
(a) Select and remove all officers, agents and employees of the corporation, prescribe such powers and duties for them as may not be inconsistent with law, the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, fix their compensation, and require from them security for faithful service.
 
(b) Change the principal executive office or the principal business office in the State of California from one location to another; cause the corporation to be qualified to do business in any other state, territory, dependency, or foreign country and conduct business within or outside the State of California; designate any place within or without the State of California for the holding of any stockholders' meeting or meetings, including annual meetings; adopt, make and use a corporate seal, and prescribe the forms of certificates of stock, and alter the form of such seal and of such certificates from time to time as in their judgment they may deem best, provided that such forms shall at all times comply with the provisions of law.
 
(c) Authorize the issuance of shares of stock of the corporation from time to time, upon such terms as may be lawful, in consideration of money paid, labor done or services actually rendered, debts or securities canceled or tangible or intangible property actually received.
 
(d) Borrow money and incur indebtedness for the purpose of the corporation, and cause to be executed and delivered therefor, in the corporate name, promissory notes, bonds, debentures, deeds of trust, mortgages, pledges, hypothecations, or other evidences of debt and securities therefor.
 
Section 2.
Number and Qualification of Directors.
 
The number of directors of the corporation shall be Thirteen (13) until changed by a bylaw amending this Section 2, duly adopted by the board of directors or by the stockholders.
 
Section 3.
Election and Term of Office of Directors.
 
Subject to Section 15 below, one class of the directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of the stockholders, but if any such annual meeting is not held or the directors are not elected thereat, the directors may be elected at any special meeting of stockholders held for that purpose. All directors shall hold office until their respective successors are elected. Irrespective of the provisions of Section 15 of this Article III and of the preceding sentence, a director shall automatically be retired on the date of the expiration of the first annual meeting following his 72nd birthday.
 
Section 4.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships.
 
Vacancies and newly created directorships in the board of directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Each director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the term of the person whom he or she succeeds, unless otherwise determined by the board of directors, and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
 
A vacancy or vacancies in the board of directors shall be deemed to exist in the case of the death, retirement, resignation, disqualification or removal of any director, or if the authorized number of directors be increased.
 
Any director may resign or voluntarily retire upon giving written notice to the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors. Such retirement or resignation shall be effective upon the giving of the notice, unless the notice specifies a later time for its effectiveness. If such retirement or resignation is effective at a future time, the board of directors may elect a successor to take office when the retirement or resignation becomes effective.
 
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of his term of office. No director may be removed during his term except for cause.
 
Section 5.
Place of Meetings and Telephonic Meetings.
 
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the board. In the absence of such designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation. Special meetings of the board shall be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation. Any meeting, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or other communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in such meeting can hear one another, and all such directors shall be deemed to be present in person at such meeting.
 
Section 6.
Annual Meetings.
 
Immediately following each annual meeting of stockholders, the board of directors shall hold a regular meeting for the purpose of organization, any desired election of officers and transaction of other business. Notice of this meeting shall not be required.
 
Section 7.
Other Regular Meetings.
 
Other regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held at such time as shall from time to time be determined by the board of directors. Such regular meetings may be held without notice provided that notice of any change in the determination of time of such meeting shall be sent to all of the directors. Notice of a change in the determination of the time shall be given to each director in the same manner as for special meetings of the board of directors.
 
Section 8.
Special Meetings.
 
Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board or the president or any vice president or the secretary or any two directors.
 
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be delivered personally or by telephone or by electronic transmission to each director or sent by first-class mail or telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at his or her address as it is shown upon the records of the corporation. In case such notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days prior to the time of the holding of the meeting. In case such notice is delivered personally, or by telephone, telegram or other form of electronic transmission, it shall be delivered personally, or by telephone or to the telegraph company or transmitted by other electronic transmission at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the time of the holding of the meeting. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated to either the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose of the meeting nor the place if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
 
Section 9.
Quorum.
 
A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as hereinafter provided. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act of the board of directors. A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.
 
Section 10.
Waiver of Notice.
 
The transactions of any meeting of the board of directors, however called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present gives a waiver of notice, a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof. The waiver of notice or consent need not specify the purpose of the meeting. All such waivers, consents and approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting. Notice of a meeting shall also be deemed given to any director who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director.
 
Section 11.
Adjournment.
 
A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.
 
Section 12.
Notice of Adjournment.
 
Notice of the time and place of an adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place thereof are announced at the adjourned meeting, unless the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, in which case notice of such time and place shall be given prior to the time of the adjourned meeting, in the manner specified in Section 8 of this Article III, to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.
 
Section 13.
Action Without Meeting.
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the board shall individually or collectively consent to such action in compliance with applicable law.
 
Section 14.
Fees and Compensation of Directors.
 
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses, as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the board of directors. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or otherwise, and receiving compensation for such services.
 
Section 15.
Classification of Directors.
 
The board of directors shall be and is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III. The number of directors in each class shall be the whole number contained in the quotient arrived at by dividing the authorized number of directors by three, and if a fraction is also contained in such quotient then if such fraction is one-third (1/3) the extra director shall be a member of Class III and if the fraction is two-thirds (2/3) one of the extra directors shall be a member of Class III and the other shall be a member of Class II. Each director shall serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual meeting following the annual meeting at which such director was elected.
 
In the event of any increase or decrease in the authorized number of directors, (a) each director then serving as such shall nevertheless continue as a director of the class of which he is a member until the expiration of his current term, or his prior death, resignation or removal, and (b) the newly created or eliminated directorships resulting from such increase or decrease shall be apportioned by the board of directors to such class or classes as shall, so far as possible, bring the number of directors in the respective classes into conformity with the formula in this Section 15, as applied to the new authorized number of directors.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Committees of Directors.
 
The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by the board of directors, designate one or more committees, including an executive committee, each consisting of two or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board. The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have all the authority of the board, except with respect to:
 
(a) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the General Corporation Law to be submitted to the stockholders for approval; or
 
(b) adopting, amending or repealing any bylaw of the corporation.
 
Section 2.
Meetings and Action of Committees.
 
Meetings and action of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these bylaws, Sections 5 (place of meetings), 7 (regular meetings), 8 (special
 
meetings and notice), 9 (quorum), 10 (waiver of notice), 11 (adjournment), 12 (notice of adjournment) and 13 (action without meetings), with such changes in the context of those bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its members, except that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined by resolution of the board of directors as well as the committee, special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors, and notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these bylaws.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Officers.
 
The officers of the corporation shall be the chairman of the board, the president, a vice president, a secretary and a treasurer. The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, one or more additional vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article V. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
 
Section 2.
Election of Officers.
 
The officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 or Section 5 of this Article V, shall be chosen annually by the board of directors, and each shall hold his office until he shall resign or be removed or otherwise disqualified to serve or his successor shall be elected and qualified.
 
Section 3.
Subordinate Officers, etc.
 
The board of directors may appoint, and may empower the chairman of the to appoint, such other officers as the business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as are provided in the bylaws or as the board of directors may from time to time determine.
board
 
Section 4.
Removal and Resignation of Officers.
 
Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the board of directors, at any regular or special meeting thereof, or, except in case of an officer chosen by the board of directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the board of directors.
 
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
Section 5.
Vacancies in Office.
 
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these bylaws for regular appointments to such office.
 
Section 6.
Chairman of the Board.
 
The chairman of the board shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs of the corporation. If so determined by the board of directors, the chairman of the board shall also be the chief executive officer.
 
Section 7.
President.
 
The president shall exercise and perform such powers and duties with respect to the administration of the business and affairs of the corporation as may from time to time be assigned to him by the chairman of the board or by the board of directors, or as may be prescribed by the bylaws. If so determined by resolution of the board of directors, the president shall also be the chief executive officer and/or the chief operating officer.
 
Section 8.
Vice Presidents.
 
In the absence or disability of the president, a vice president designated by the board of directors shall perform all the duties of the president, and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the board of directors or the bylaws.
 
Section 9.
Secretary.
 
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or such other place as the board of directors may order, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors and stockholders, with the time and place of holding, whether regular or special, and, if special, how authorized, the notice thereof given, the names of those present at directors' and committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
 
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a stock register, or a duplicate register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates issued for the same, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
 
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors required by the bylaws or by law to be given, and he shall keep the seal of the corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by the bylaws.
 
Section 10.
Treasurer.
 
The treasurer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection by any director.
 
The treasurer shall deposit all monies and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the board of directors. He shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the chairman of the board and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or the bylaws.
 
Section 11.
Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers.
 
Any assistant secretary may perform any act within the power of the secretary, and any assistant treasurer may perform any act within the power of the treasurer, subject to any limitations which may be imposed in these bylaws or in board resolutions.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Indemnification and Insurance.
 
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee of agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expenses, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
 
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtained or even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so
 
directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iv) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
 
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim, including attorney's fees. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the corporation. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
 
(E) The corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
 
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
 
(G) The corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law. To the extent that the corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or
 
officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
 
(H) The corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the corporation.
 
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provisions held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
 
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
 
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
 
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
 
Section 2.
Fiduciaries of Corporate Employee Benefit Plan.
 
This Article VI does not apply to any proceeding against any trustee, investment manager or other fiduciary of an employee benefit plan in such person's capacity as such, even though such person may also be an agent of the corporation as defined in Section 1 of this Article VI. Nothing contained in this Article VI shall limit any right to indemnification to which such a trustee, investment manager or other fiduciary may be entitled by contract or otherwise, which shall be enforceable to the extent permitted by Section 410 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, other than this Article VI.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Maintenance and Inspection of Stock Register.
 
The corporation shall keep at its principal executive office, or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar, if either be appointed, and as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a record of its stockholders, giving the names and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of shares held by each stockholder.
 
Section 2.
Maintenance and Inspection of Bylaws.
 
The corporation shall keep at its principal executive office the original or a copy of the bylaws as amended to date, which shall be open to inspection by the stockholders at all reasonable times during office hours.
 
Section 3.
Maintenance and Inspection of Other Corporate Records.
 
The accounting books and records and minutes of proceedings of the stockholders and the board of directors and any committee or committees of the board of directors shall be kept at such place or places designated by the board of directors, or, in the absence of such designation, at the principal executive office of the corporation. The minutes shall be kept in written form and the accounting books and records shall be kept either in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form. Such minutes and accounting books and records shall be open to inspection upon the written demand of any stockholder or holder of a voting trust certificate, at any reasonable time during usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to such holder's interests as a stockholder or as a holder of a voting trust certificate. Such inspection may be made in person or by an agent or attorney, and shall include the right to copy and make extracts. The foregoing rights of inspection shall extend to the records of each subsidiary corporation of the corporation.
 
Section 4.
Inspection by Directors.
 
Every director shall have the absolute right at any reasonable time to inspect all books, records and documents of every kind and the physical properties of the corporation and each of its subsidiary corporations. Such inspection by a director may be made in person or by agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Record Date for Purposes Other Than Notice and Voting.
 
For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to any such action, and in such case only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights or to exercise the rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date fixed as aforesaid, except as otherwise provided in the General Corporation Law.
 
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board adopts the resolution relating thereto, or the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the date of such action, whichever is later.
 
Section 2.
Checks, Drafts, Evidences of Indebtedness.
 
All checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, issued in the name of or payable to the corporation shall be signed or endorsed by such person or persons and in such manner as, from time to time, shall be determined by resolution of the board of directors.
 
Section 3.
Corporate Contracts and Instruments; How Executed.
 
The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances; and, unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or to any amount.
 
Section 4.
Stock Certificates.
 
A certificate or certificates for shares of the capital stock of the corporation shall be issued to each stockholder when any such shares are fully paid. All certificates shall be signed in the name of the corporation by the chairman of the board or the president or vice president and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer or the secretary or any assistant secretary, certifying the number of shares and the class or series of shares owned by the stockholder. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if such person were an officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
Section 5.
Lost Certificates.
 
Except as hereinafter in this Section 5 provided, no new stock certificate shall be issued in lieu of an old certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and canceled at the same time. The board of directors may in case any stock certificate or certificate for any other security is lost, stolen or destroyed, authorize the issuance of a new certificate in lieu thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the board of directors may require, including provision for indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
 
Section 6.
Representation of Stock of Other Corporations.
 
The chairman of the board, the president, or any vice president, or any other person authorized by resolution of the board of directors by any of the foregoing designated officers, is authorized to vote on behalf of the corporation any and all stock of any other corporation or corporations, foreign or domestic, standing in the name of the corporation. The authority herein granted to said officers to vote or represent on behalf of the corporation any and all stock by the corporation in any other corporation or corporations may be exercised by any such officer in person or by any person authorized to do so by proxy duly executed by said officer.
 
Section 7.
Construction and Definitions.
 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law shall govern the construction of the bylaws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
 
Section 8.
Fiscal Year.
 
The fiscal year of the corporation shall commence the first day of the calendar year.
 
Section 9.
Seal.
 
The seal of the corporation shall be round and shall bear the name of the corporation and words and figures denoting its organization under the laws of the State of Delaware and year thereof, and otherwise shall be in such form as shall be approved from time to time by the board of directors.
 
 
 
Section 1.
Amendment by Stockholders.
 
New bylaws may be adopted or these bylaws may be amended or repealed by the vote of not less than 80% of the total voting power of all shares of stock of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors, considered for purposes of this Section 1 as one class.
 
Section 2.
Amendment by Directors.
 
Subject to the rights of the stockholders as provided in Section 1 of this Article IX, to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws, bylaws may be adopted, amended or repealed by the board of directors.
 
Amended April 28, 2005
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.11.6
 
 
Mr. Dean A. Scarborough
President and Chief Executive Officer
Avery Dennison Corporation
150 North Orange Grove Boulevard
Pasadena, California 91103
 
Dear Mr. Scarborough:
 
Avery Dennison Corporation ("Company") adopted the amended and restated Avery Dennison Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("Plan") effective as of April 22, 2004, a copy of which is enclosed. This letter is written to advise you that the Compensation and Executive Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company has designated you as a Participant under the Plan.
 
As an inducement for you to remain in the service of the Company, and to provide you with additional incentive to further the growth, development and financial success of the Company, the Company hereby agrees to provide you with a Benefit which, subject to the terms of the Plan and those set forth below, shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of an annual payment of a straight life annuity with payments commencing as described below and each payment equal to the excess of sixty-two and one-half percent (62.5%) of your Average Compensation over the total of the offsets numbered (1), (2), (3) and (4) below.
 
The amount of the offsets described below will be calculated as of the date of your Retirement or other termination of employment with the Company; provided, however, that the amount of offset (4) shall not be calculated or take effect before October 14, 2020, or such earlier date, if any, upon which you commence receiving benefit payments under the Social Security Act. The offsets are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
You may elect to receive your Benefit in any form allowed by the Plan and the provisions set forth below at any time more than twelve (12) months before October 14, 2020, when you will attain age 65. The time when Benefit payments hereunder shall commence and the conditions of your entitlement to the Benefit are described below:
 
. In the event of your Retirement at or after age 65, payment of your Benefit will commence on your Retirement Date.
Retirement
 
. In the event your employment with the Company is terminated for Cause before you attain age 65, no Benefit shall be payable hereunder or under the Plan.
Cause
 
. In the event your employment with the Company is terminated by voluntary resignation (other than for Good Reason) before you attain age 65, no Benefit shall be payable hereunder or under the Plan. If you terminate employment for Good Reason pursuant to your Employment Agreement with the Company dated May 1, 2000 as amended from time to time (the "Employment Agreement"), payment of your Benefit shall commence upon the first to occur of (i) October 14, 2020 or (ii) three years after your termination of employment. If payment of your Benefit commences before you attain age 65, your benefit will be actuarially reduced for early commencement in the same manner as provided in the Retirement Plan.
Voluntary Resignation
 
. In the event your employment with the Company is terminated because of your Disability, payment of your Benefit will commence on October 14, 2020, provided that you are then living.
Disability
 
. In the event your employment with the Company is terminated by your death, payment of your Benefit will be made only to the spouse to whom you were married on the date of your death, and will commence on the first of the month after your death, provided that such spouse is then living. The payments to her shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the payments which would have been made to her hereunder had you selected the 50% joint and survivor form of annuity and retired on the date of your death. No Benefit shall be payable hereunder or under the Plan if you die before age 65 while unmarried.
Death
 
. In the event your employment with the Company is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability, Cause, voluntary resignation by you (other than for Good Reason) before age 65, or Retirement at or after age 65, payment of your Benefit will commence upon the first to occur of (i) October 14, 2020 or (ii) three years after your termination of employment. If payment of your Benefit commences before you attain age 65, your benefit will be actuarially reduced for early commencement in the same manner as provided in the Retirement Plan.
Other
 
For purposes of determining your rights hereunder and under the Plan, the terms Cause, Good Reason and Disability shall have the meanings set forth in the Employment Agreement, and the terms Actuarial Equivalent, Average Compensation, Actuarial Reduction, Primary Social Security Benefit, Retirement and Retirement Date shall have the meanings set forth in Appendix A hereto.
 
Neither future amendments nor termination of the Plan will adversely affect the Benefit to be provided hereunder or under the Plan without your prior written consent. The rights provided hereunder and under the Plan may not be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
Please acknowledge your receipt and acceptance of this Letter of Grant, and your agreement to be bound by all of the terms hereof and of the Plan, by countersigning and dating the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided below and returning the same to me.
 
Very truly yours,
 
AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION
 
 
I hereby acknowledge having received, read and understood this Letter of Grant and the Plan, and agree to be bound by the terms hereof and of the Plan.
 
 
 
As used in the Letter of Grant to which this Appendix is attached, and herein, the following terms shall have the meanings specified:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For this purpose your salary and bonus shall include any such compensation that is deferred by you under any Company deferred compensation plan or arrangement.
 
 
 
 
 
 


