FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20060124133132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated January 24, 2006, regarding its preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, along with earnings guidance for the 2006 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access our webcast and teleconference call, please go to our website at http://www.investors.averydennison.com.
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
The Company is amending the disclosure that was provided in its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 7, 2005 to provide information regarding exit costs related to product line divestitures. The Company is negotiating the sale of two product lines, which would reduce annual sales by approximately $70 million, with minimal impact to earnings from operations. In connection with these expected divestitures, the Company recorded in its preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter of 2005, cash and non-cash pretax charges related to severance and other employee-related costs, as well as asset impairments totaling approximately $15 million. Cash charges included severance and related costs of approximately $6 million for approximately 150 positions. Also included was approximately $9 million of non-cash charges related to asset impairments, which were primarily related to land, buildings, machinery and equipment.
Item 2.06 Material Impairments
At the time the Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 7, 2005 was filed, the Company was not able to estimate the amount of non-cash charges expected to be recorded in relation to the sale of certain non-strategic, low-margin businesses. The Company is in discussions to sell a business consisting of raised reflective pavement markers. In connection with this expected sale, the Company concluded on January 20, 2006, that the goodwill and certain intangibles related to this business have been impaired. This conclusion is based on an amount that is currently being considered as a reasonable value for this business in connection with discussions with potential buyers. The Company recorded in its preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter of 2005, non-cash impairment pretax charges of approximately $74 million. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," the financial results for this business have been included as discontinued operations in the Company's preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter of 2005.
Divestiture of this business would not impact the Company's reflective films business. The Company will continue to manufacture and market reflective films for the graphics and highway and traffic safety markets.
In addition, the information concerning asset impairments reported in Item 2.05 "Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" above is incorporated herein. The Company recorded approximately $9 million of non-cash pretax charges related to asset impairments from the expected divestitures of two product lines. These charges were based on the amounts currently being considered as a reasonable value for property, plant and equipment for these product lines with prospective buyers.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
On January 24, 2006, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, along with earnings guidance for the 2006 fiscal year, as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
Table of Contents
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission ("EC"), Canadian Department of Justice, and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies, financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; development, introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
The financial information presented in the news release, included as an exhibit to this Current Report, represents preliminary financial results, but the audit has not yet been completed. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, integrated audit requirements will not be met until the Company has completed all of the steps necessary to file these financial statements with the SEC.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities; (2) the degree to which higher raw material costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (3) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; and (4) ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see the Exhibit 99.1 "Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The Safe Harbor Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 17, 2005. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     PASADENA, Calif.  January 24, 2006  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported a loss for the fourth quarter of $0.07 per share on a fully diluted basis, compared with fully diluted earnings per share of $0.83 a year ago. Reported results included the impact of previously announced restructuring actions, product line divestitures and discontinued operations, as well as the effects of a legal accrual related to a patent lawsuit and gain on sale of a leased asset. Excluding these costs, fourth quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.92 compared with $0.83 a year ago, above the Company's guidance for the quarter.
(See Attachment A-3: "Preliminary Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures".)
     Compared to the prior year fourth quarter, earnings before restructuring and divestiture-related charges increased on lower sales due to improved profitability, primarily related to reductions in operating expense and the tax rate. Severance and non-cash charges associated with the restructuring actions and divestitures totaled $130 million before tax in the fourth quarter, or $98 million after tax.
 
     "We made significant progress in 2005 to improve the profitability of our businesses," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "The charges that reduced fourth quarter reported earnings reflect our steps to fine-tune our portfolio and improve our global operating efficiencies. These actions will enhance our ability to meet both our top-line growth and margin improvement objectives."
     Pre-tax charges associated with restructuring actions include $28 million in severance costs for a previously announced reduction in headcount of approximately 700 employees, and $14 million in asset and lease impairments, with actions impacting all of the Company's segments and most regions. Pre-tax savings associated with these actions are expected to total $50 to $60 million in 2006, increasing to a total of $65 to $70 million per year when fully implemented.
     The Company anticipates additional restructuring actions in 2006, which could result in further headcount reductions totaling an estimated 80 to 100 positions, with restructuring charges in the range of $10 to $15 million expected to be incurred during the first half of 2006. These actions are expected to yield a further $15 to $20 million in savings per year when fully implemented.
     Pending divestitures include several non-strategic, low margin product lines. Pre-tax costs recognized in the fourth quarter in connection with these divestitures include $6 million in severance for a reduction in headcount of approximately 150 employees, and $83 million in non-cash charges associated with the impairment of goodwill and other assets. [See below, for more information.]
Pending divestitures,
 
     A portion of the benefits from restructuring actions and divestitures will be used to fund investments in ongoing Horizons initiatives and future growth opportunities, as well as actions to drive additional productivity gains.
     
Other financial highlights from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2005:
 
     
Segment results from continuing operations
     Sales for the Company's Pressure-sensitive Materials segment declined by approximately 3 percent from the prior year to $763 million due to a reduction in unit volume, reflecting the extra week of sales which benefited the fourth quarter of the prior year. Excluding the benefit of the extra week in the prior year, unit volume increased by an estimated 1 percent.
 
     Before the effects of restructuring and asset impairment costs and the legal accrual, operating margin for the segment improved to 8.6 percent compared with 8.0 percent a year ago, reflecting productivity improvement initiatives and spending controls. With the exception of cost inflation incurred during the fourth quarter of 2005, the benefit of price increases covered higher raw material costs.
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
     Sales for the Office and Consumer Products segment declined by approximately 11 percent from the prior year to $293 million due to a reduction in unit volume, primarily reflecting the extra week of sales and increased year-end orders by large customers, both of which benefited the fourth quarter of the prior year. Excluding these factors, unit volume declined by an estimated 3 percent.
     Before the effects of restructuring and asset impairment costs, operating margin for the segment increased to 22.4 percent compared with 19.7 percent a year ago, reflecting the benefit of productivity improvement efforts, spending controls and pricing. Price increases, effective January 1, 2005, have covered cumulative raw material inflation for the segment over the past two years.
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
     Sales for the Retail Information Services segment declined by approximately 3 percent from the prior year to $170 million due to a reduction in unit volume, reflecting the extra week of sales which benefited the fourth quarter of the prior year. Excluding the benefit of the extra week in the prior year, unit volume was up slightly.
 
     Before the effects of restructuring, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges, operating margin for the segment increased to 8.0 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 7.0 percent a year ago, reflecting productivity improvement efforts, including movement of production from Hong Kong to lower cost operations in mainland China, as well as spending controls.
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
     Businesses in the Other Specialty Converting group reported sales of approximately $138 million, up approximately 1 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to unit volume growth. Excluding the benefit of the extra week in the prior year, unit volume increased by an estimated 5 percent. Before the effects of restructuring and asset impairment costs, operating margin for these businesses decreased to 1.7 percent from 2.1 percent a year ago, due to higher spending related to the Company's radio frequency identification (RFID) division, partially offset by the benefit of productivity initiatives. (
See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information".)
     
Financial highlights for the year:
 
 
     
Pending divestitures:
     The Company is currently in discussions to sell a business consisting of raised reflective pavement markers. The financial results for this business have been included as discontinued operations. Sales for the approximately break-even business were $23 million in 2005. Divestiture of this business would not impact the Company's reflective films business; the Company will continue to manufacture and market reflective films for the graphics and highway and traffic safety markets, utilizing its proprietary glass beaded and microreplication technology.
     In addition, the Company is also negotiating the sale of two product lines, which would reduce annual sales by approximately $70 million, with minimal impact to earnings from operations.
     
Outlook for 2006
     Avery Dennison announced that it expects fully diluted earnings for 2006 to be in the range of $3.45 to $3.80 per share. This range includes an estimated $0.12 per share impact from stock option expense, not included in 2005 reported earnings. The Company's expectation for stock option expense is below its previous estimated range of $0.13 to $0.18 per share, following the finalization of its accounting methodology.
     The Company's expected range in earnings excludes the impact of additional restructuring charges related to plans that have not yet been finalized. Based on plans to date, these charges could reduce full year earnings by $0.08 to $0.12 per share; this range may increase as planning continues.
 
     The Company's earnings expectations reflect an assumption of reported revenue growth from continuing operations in the range of 2 to 3 percent, including an estimated 3 percent negative impact primarily from currency translation and product line divestitures.
     "Even though we faced a challenging business environment in 2005, we built momentum through disciplined cost control and rigorous pricing execution," said Scarborough. "We will maintain that tight discipline going forward, driving solid margin improvement in 2006, while simultaneously pursuing growth opportunities, including expansion in the rapidly growing emerging markets, as well as new product and service innovations out of our Horizons pipeline."
     "We are especially pleased with the progress we have made in developing our RFID business this past year," added Scarborough. "We continue to improve the operating efficiency of our new high-speed manufacturing process, and are seeing good traction with customers who are moving to the Gen 2 RFID chip standard. We believe that we are very well positioned to achieve our market share objectives as industry demand accelerates."
     Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive labeling materials, office products and retail tag, ticketing and branding systems. Based in Pasadena, Calif., Avery Dennison is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $5.5 billion. Avery Dennison employs more than 22,000 individuals in 48 countries worldwide who apply the Company's technologies to develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for both consumer and industrial markets.
 
     Products offered by Avery Dennison include Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, labels for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and durable goods applications, brand identification and supply chain management products for the retail and apparel industries, and specialty tapes and polymers.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission ("EC"), Canadian Department of Justice, and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquired companies, financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; development, introduction and acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
The financial information presented in this news release represents preliminary financial results, but the audit has not yet been completed. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, integrated audit requirements will not be met until the Company has completed all of the steps necessary to file these financial statements with the SEC.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities; (2) the degree to which higher raw material costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (3) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; and (4) ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (In millions, except per share amounts)
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
 
A-2
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Avery Dennison uses the non-GAAP measures presented to evaluate and manage the Company's operations internally. Avery Dennison is also providing this information to assist investors in performing additional financial analysis that is consistent with financial models developed by research analysts who follow the Company.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES (In millions, except per share amounts)
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
A-4
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
A-6
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.
 
A-7
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2005 financial statement presentation.


