FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20061024084554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated October 24, 2006, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the third quarter of 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the webcast and teleconference call, please go to the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Avery Dennison Corporation's presentation dated October 24, 2006, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the third quarter of 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, this information is available on the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign currency exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the European Commission ("EC"), Canadian Department of Justice, and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigations into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof or of the recently concluded investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquisitions; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; (2) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand
Table of Contents
for the Company's products; (3) the impact of competitors' actions, including expansion in key markets, product offerings and pricing; (4) the impact of changes in raw material and energy-related costs and associated changes in selling prices; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 15, 2006. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release, included as an Exhibit to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     PASADENA, Calif.  October 24, 2006  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported net income of $85.0 million or $0.85 per share, compared with $86.2 million or $0.86 per share in the prior year. Third quarter 2006 results included an after-tax cost related to a reserve for environmental remediation of $8.1 million, or $0.08 per share. Results also included restructuring and asset impairment charges and other items totaling $0.05 per share in 2006 and $0.01 per share in the prior year. (
See Attachment A-3: "Preliminary Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures".)
     The Company estimated that its annualized savings from restructuring efforts will total between $90 million and $100 million by year-end, some of which will be reinvested for growth.
     Net sales from continuing operations for the third quarter were $1.42 billion, up approximately 5 percent from $1.36 billion for the same quarter last year. Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation, was approximately 4 percent. This increase was attributable to unit volume growth and positive changes in pricing and product mix.
     "Notwithstanding the impact of an environmental reserve that reduced our reported earnings, we delivered solid operational results in the third quarter and are on track to achieve our goals in 2006," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "We are particularly pleased with the significant increase in operating margins in our two largest business segments, which reflects the success of our efforts to drive margin expansion while we continue to focus on top line growth.
 
     "Underlying sales growth improved in all major regions of the world with the exception of the U.S., where our results reflected weaker market conditions, particularly in economically sensitive businesses like Specialty Tapes and Industrial and Automotive Products," Scarborough added. "We were especially encouraged by the growth of our businesses in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, where total sales grew 15 percent, as well as by the strong growth of Avery-brand office products during a good back-to-school season."
Additional Third Quarter Financial Highlights From Continuing Operations
(For a more detailed presentation of the Company's results for the quarter, see , posted at the Company's Web site at .)
Third Quarter 2006 Financial Review and Analysis
www.investors.averydennison.com
Segment Highlights
(See Attachment A-5: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information" for adjusted operating margins included below.)
 
Outlook for the Year
     Reflecting third quarter results, Avery Dennison adjusted its full year guidance for reported (GAAP) earnings per share to a range of $3.56 to $3.68, including the impact of both the third quarter environmental remediation costs and updates to its estimates for restructuring charges and stock option expense. The Company previously expected reported (GAAP) earnings per share to be in the range of $3.58 to $3.81. The Company's full year earnings guidance includes costs of $0.08 per share for environmental remediation, $0.16 to $0.18 per share related to restructuring charges, as well as a $0.15 per share benefit related to discontinued operations. Excluding these items, the Company's full year earnings per share guidance is now $3.67 to $3.77, revised from its previous estimate of $3.60 to $3.80. (
(up from previous estimate of $0.14 to $0.17 per share)
See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures".)
Note: Throughout this release, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
     Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive labeling materials, office products and retail tag, ticketing and branding systems. Based in Pasadena, Calif., Avery Dennison is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $5.5 billion. Avery Dennison employs more than 22,000 individuals in 49 countries worldwide who apply the Company's technologies to develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for both consumer and industrial markets. Products offered by Avery Dennison include Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, labels for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and durable goods applications, brand identification and supply chain management products for the retail and apparel industries, and specialty tapes and polymers.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign currency exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the European Commission ("EC"), Canadian Department of Justice, and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof or of the recently concluded investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquisitions; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; (2) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (3) the impact of competitors' actions, including expansion in key markets, product offerings and pricing; (4) the impact of changes in raw material and energy-related costs and associated changes in selling prices; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
The financial information presented in this news release represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (In millions, except per share amounts)
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2006 financial statement presentation.
                      
 
A-2
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative (e.g. gains on sales of assets, restructuring charges, asset impairments, etc.), from certain of the Company's GAAP measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's "core" or "underlying" operating results. These non-GAAP measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period.
Limitations associated with the use of the Company's non-GAAP measures include (1) the exclusion of items that recur from time to time (e.g. restructuring, asset impairment charges, gains on sales of assets, etc.) from calculations of the Company's earnings and operating margin; (2) the exclusion of interest expense from the calculation of the Company's operating margin; and (3) the exclusion of any mandatory debt service requirements, as well as the exclusion of other uses of the cash generated by operating activities that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchase, acquisitions, etc.) for calculation of free cash flow. While some of the items the Company excludes from GAAP measures recur, these items tend to be disparate in amount and timing. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES (In millions, except per share amounts)
                      
 
A-4
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES (Full Year 2006 Estimates)
                      
 
A-5
                      
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2006 financial statement presentation.
                      
 
A-6
                      
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2006 financial statement presentation.
                      
 
A-7
 
A-8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


