FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20060725084315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated July 25, 2006, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the second quarter of 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the webcast and teleconference call, please go to the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Avery Dennison Corporation's presentation dated July 25, 2006, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the second quarter of 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, this information is available on the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 On July 25, 2006, Avery Dennison Corporation issued a news release announcing its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the second quarter ending July 1, 2006, along with earnings guidance for the 2006 fiscal year.
99.2 On July 25, 2006, Avery Dennison Corporation provided a presentation regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the second quarter of 2006.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign currency exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission ("EC"), Canadian Department of Justice, and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquisitions; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; (2) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (3) the impact of competitors' actions, including expansion
 
in key markets, product offerings and pricing; (4) the degree to which higher raw material and energy-related costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on March 15, 2006. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release, included as an Exhibit to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     PASADENA, Calif.  July 25, 2006  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported net income of $112 million or $1.12 per share, compared with $89.4 million or $0.89 per share in the prior year. Second quarter 2006 results included an after-tax benefit of $15.6 million or $0.16 per share related to the tax effect of a divestiture that partially offset previously recognized losses from discontinued operations.
     Second quarter 2006 earnings from continuing operations were $96.4 million or $0.96 per share, up 8 percent from $89.6 million or $0.89 per share in the prior year. In both years, results included restructuring and asset impairment charges and other items. Excluding these items, second quarter earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 9 percent over the same quarter last year to $0.99. (
See Attachment A-3: "Preliminary Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures".)
     The increase in earnings reflected improvements in the Company's productivity that led to a higher gross profit margin and lower operating expense ratio. The Company also raised its estimate of annualized savings from restructuring efforts to $85 to $100 million by year-end, including the benefit of new productivity actions identified during the quarter.
     Net sales for the second quarter were $1.41 billion, approximately even with the same quarter last year. Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation, was 2 percent. This increase was attributable to both unit volume growth and positive changes in pricing and product mix.
     "We continued to make steady progress in reaching our goals this quarter, and in developing new sources of future top line growth and productivity improvement," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of
 
Avery Dennison. "We remain committed to the pursuit of a balanced long-term strategy to drive both solid sales growth and continued margin expansion.
     "Underlying unit growth improved sequentially for the roll materials business in North America, as customers continue to value our service and product advantages," Scarborough added. "We expect volume growth to accelerate in the second half of the year.
     "I am particularly encouraged by the continued strength of the materials operations in the emerging markets of Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe," Scarborough said. "Retail Information Services also delivered solid sales growth and outstanding margin improvement. We expect these businesses, as well as radio frequency identification and other important Horizon initiatives, to play key roles in driving top line growth and improved profitability."
Additional Second Quarter Financial Highlights From Continuing Operations
(For a more detailed presentation of the Company's results for the quarter, see , posted at the Company's Web site at .)
Second Quarter 2006 Financial Review and Analysis
www.investors.averydennison.com
Segment Highlights
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information" for adjusted operating margins included below.)
 
Outlook for the Year
Reflecting second quarter results, Avery Dennison adjusted its full year guidance for earnings from continuing operations to a range of $3.60 to $3.80 per share before charges associated with ongoing restructuring efforts. The Company previously expected earnings from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.55 to $3.80 per share before restructuring and asset impairment charges. The Company now expects these charges will reduce full year earnings by $0.14 to $0.17 per share, up from the previous estimate of $0.09 to $0.13 per share.
Note: Throughout this release, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
     Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive labeling materials, office products and retail tag, ticketing and branding systems. Based in Pasadena, Calif., Avery Dennison is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2005 sales of $5.5 billion. Avery Dennison employs more than 22,000 individuals in 48 countries worldwide who apply the Company's technologies to develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for both consumer and industrial markets. Products offered by Avery Dennison include Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, labels for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and durable goods applications, brand identification and supply chain management products for the retail and apparel industries, and specialty tapes and polymers.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain information presented in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements. These statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and
 
sustain targeted cost reductions; foreign currency exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") criminal investigation, as well as the European Commission ("EC"), Canadian Department of Justice, and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigations, into industry competitive practices and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and purported class actions related to alleged disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation, as well as a likely fine by the EC in respect of certain employee misconduct in Europe); impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquisitions; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
     
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; (2) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (3) the impact of competitors' actions, including expansion in key markets, product offerings and pricing; (4) the degree to which higher raw material and energy-related costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
The financial information presented in this news release represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (In millions, except per share amounts)
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2006 financial statement presentation.
                      
 
A-2
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Avery Dennison uses the non-GAAP measures presented to evaluate and manage the Company's operations internally. Avery Dennison is also providing this information to assist investors in performing additional financial analysis that is consistent with financial models developed by research analysts who follow the Company.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES (In millions, except per share amounts)
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2006 financial statement presentation.
                      
 
A-4
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2006 financial statement presentation.
 
 
A-5
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2006 financial statement presentation.
 
 
A-6
 
A-7

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


