FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20070724084529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated July 24, 2007, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the second quarter of 2007, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the webcast and teleconference call, please go to the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Avery Dennison Corporation's presentation dated July 24, 2007, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the second quarter of 2007, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, this information is available on the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are "forward-looking" statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including synergies expected from the integration of the Paxar business in the time and at the cost anticipated; foreign currency exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to these investigations or to the subject matter thereof or of the concluded investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), the European Commission, and the Canadian Department of Justice (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and a purported class action related to alleged disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquisitions; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including expansion in key markets, product offerings and pricing; (3) the
 
degree to which higher raw material and energy-related costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (4) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including expected synergies associated with the Paxar integration.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2007. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release, included as an Exhibit to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     PASADENA, Calif.  July 24, 2007  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported net income of $85.8 million or $0.87 per share for the second quarter, compared to $112 million or $1.12 per share for the same period last year. Second quarter 2007 results included Paxar acquisition-related expenses, including software impairment charges, two weeks of operating results from Paxar and higher interest associated with the transaction. The net effect of the Paxar acquisition and other items reduced net income by approximately $0.15 per share for the quarter. Second quarter 2006 results included a net benefit of $0.13 per share related to discontinued operations, net of other items.
     The Company reported adjusted earnings of $100.9 million or $1.02 per share for the second quarter of 2007, compared with $99.5 million or $0.99 per share for the same period last year. These adjusted results exclude the impact of discontinued operations, the Paxar acquisition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, and other items.
 
     Net sales for the second quarter were $1.52 billion, an increase of 8.1 percent from $1.41 billion for the same quarter last year. Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation, was 2 percent. This increase reflected higher unit volumes, partially offset by negative changes in pricing and product mix.
     "Net income from continuing operations continued to grow during the second quarter, despite a relatively slow market for roll label materials in North America and a more competitive pricing environment," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer. "Most importantly, the North American roll label material business achieved its first positive volume comparisons in two years. The Company's earnings growth was below expectations, however, and we have lowered the earnings outlook for the year."
     Avery Dennison completed the acquisition of Paxar on June 15, 2007 and is merging the company with its Retail Information Services segment (RIS), which serves the global retail information and brand identification market. The Company has raised the estimates of the cost synergies from the transaction to $115-$125 million, from $90-$100 million. EPS accretion is now estimated to be $0.40-$0.50 in 2008, rising to $0.90-$1.00 when fully integrated, up from initial estimates of $0.60 to $0.70 upon completion. One-time costs related to the integration, including charges associated with the consolidation of the two companies' information systems, are now expected to be in the range of $175 to $210 million, up from initial estimates of $150 to $175+ million. An estimated 15 percent of the one-time costs are expected to take the form of non-cash charges.
     "During the second quarter, we completed one of the most important acquisitions in the history of the Company," said Scarborough. "The combining of Paxar with RIS is a transformative event for Avery Dennison and will enable us to serve a worldwide market for retail information and brand identification of more than $15 billion."
     "We are pleased with the progress of the integration," Scarborough added. "We have retained a significant number of senior level Paxar executives and the leadership team represents a good blend of managers from both companies. Our teams have done a great job of identifying more savings than we initially expected, developing plans to achieve those savings faster than we anticipated, and finding additional opportunities to grow our business. We expect that the combined strength of the two companies, coupled with substantial cost synergies, will create a business that will produce sales growth above the Company average, with expanding profitability and return."
(For a more detailed presentation of the Company's results for the quarter, see , posted at the Company's Web site at .)
Second Quarter Financial Highlights
Second Quarter 2007 Financial Review and Analysis
www.investors.averydennison.com
 
Segment Highlights
(See Attachments A-4 and A-6: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information" for adjusted operating margins included below.)
Outlook for the Year
Reflecting second quarter earnings and the effects of the Paxar acquisition, Avery Dennison announced that it expects earnings for 2007, before restructuring charges and integration costs, to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.10. Prior to the announcement of the Paxar acquisition, the Company had expected earnings of $4.05 to $4.30 before restructuring charges. Dilution from the Paxar acquisition is
 
expected to be in the range of $(0.05) to $(0.10) for the year, before restructuring and integration costs.
     The Company's earnings expectations reflect an assumption of reported revenue growth from continuing operations in the range of 14 to 16 percent, including a 9 percent contribution from the Paxar acquisition (net of divestitures), and an estimated 3.5 to 4 percent benefit from currency translation.
(For a more detailed presentation of the Company's assumptions underlying its 2007 earnings expectations, see , posted at the Company's Web site at .)
Second Quarter 2007 Financial Review and Analysis
www.investors.averydennison.com
Note: Throughout this release, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
     Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive labeling materials, retail tag, ticketing and branding systems, and office products. Based in Pasadena, Calif., Avery Dennison is a FORTUNE 500 Company with 2006 sales of $5.6 billion. Following the acquisition of Paxar in 2007, Avery Dennison employs more than 30,000 individuals in 51 countries worldwide, who develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for both consumer and industrial markets. Products offered by Avery Dennison include: Fasson brand self-adhesive materials; Avery Dennison and Paxar brand products for the retail and apparel industries; Avery brand office products and graphics imaging media; specialty tapes, peel-and-stick postage stamps, and labels for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and durable goods applications.
     Certain statements contained in this news release are "forward-looking" statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including synergies expected from the integration of the Paxar business in the time and at the cost anticipated; foreign currency exchange rates; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; impact of legal proceedings, including the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to this investigation or to the subject matter thereof or of the concluded investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), the European Commission, and the Canadian Department of Justice (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, and a purported class action related to alleged disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; successful integration of acquisitions; financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; and other matters referred to in the Company's SEC filings.
     The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including expansion in key markets,
 
product offerings and pricing; (3) the degree to which higher raw material and energy-related costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (4) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including expected synergies associated with the Paxar integration.
     For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2007, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this news release are made only as of the date of this news release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A - 2
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Accordance with SEC Regulations G and S-K
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative (e.g. gains on sales of assets, restructuring charges, asset impairments, effects of acquisitions and related costs, etc.), from certain of the Company's GAAP measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's "core" or "underlying" operating results. These non-GAAP measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period.
Limitations associated with the use of the Company's non-GAAP measures include (1) the exclusion of items that recur from time to time (e.g. restructuring, asset impairment charges, discontinued operations, etc.) from calculations of the Company's earnings and operating margin; (2) the exclusion of the effects of acquisitions, including integration costs and interest expense from incremental borrowings to fund acquisitions; (3) the exclusion of interest expense from the calculation of the Company's operating margin; and (4) the exclusion of any mandatory debt service requirements, as well as the exclusion of other uses of the cash generated by operating activities that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchase, acquisitions, etc.) for calculation of free cash flow. While some of the items the Company excludes from GAAP measures recur, these items tend to be disparate in amount and timing. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A - 3
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-4
 
 
A-5
 
 
A-6
 
 
A-7
 
A-8

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


