FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20070302155040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) The Company announced today that Mitchell R. Butier, age 35, has been elected Vice President and Controller (chief accounting officer), effective as of March 1, 2007. Mr. Butier joined the Company in 2000, and since August 2004 has served as Vice President, Finance for the Company's Retail Information Systems group. Prior to that position, Mr. Butier was Group Finance Director for the Company's Roll Materials Division in Europe. The Company's news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
     
Laurence J. Dwyer (626) 304-2014
communications@averydennison.com
Investor Relations:
Cynthia S. Guenther (626) 304-2204
investorcom@averydennison.com
PASADENA, Calif.  March 2, 2007  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE: AVY) announced today that Mitchell R. Butier has been named vice president, controller and chief accounting officer, effective March 1, 2007.
"Mitch brings a wealth of experience from a wide variety of financial management positions, both overseas and in North America, to the controller's office," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer. "He has demonstrated strong leadership skills in these key positions and will play an important role in our continued growth as a global enterprise."
As controller, Butier will be responsible for the Company's domestic and international accounting policies and practices, financial reporting requirements and maintenance of fiscal records. He will also provide leadership for developing and managing Avery Dennison's annual operating plan, as well as general accounting and budgeting at the corporate level, and will be involved in establishing standard financial policies, procedures, methodologies, reports and analyses for Finance's global structure. Butier will also lead the Company's global Finance organization supporting all business units. He will report to Daniel R. O'Bryant, executive vice president, Finance, and chief financial officer.
2-2-2
Butier joined Avery Dennison in 2000 as finance director of Office Products North America and was named group director of Finance for Roll Materials Europe in 2002. In 2004, he was appointed vice president of Finance of Retail Information Services. Prior to Avery Dennison, Butier was a senior manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive labeling materials, office products and retail tag, ticketing and branding systems. Based in Pasadena, Calif., Avery Dennison is a FORTUNE 500 company with 2006 sales of $5.6 billion. Avery Dennison employs more than 22,000 individuals in 49 countries worldwide who apply the Company's technologies to develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for both consumer and industrial markets. Products offered by Avery Dennison include Avery-brand office products and graphics imaging media, Fasson-brand self-adhesive materials, peel-and-stick postage stamps, reflective highway safety products, labels for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and durable goods applications, brand identification and supply chain management products for the retail and apparel industries, and specialty tapes and polymers.


