FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20071023084542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's news release dated October 23, 2007, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the third quarter of 2007, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the webcast and teleconference call, please go to the Company's Web site at http://www.investors.averydennison.com.
Avery Dennison Corporation's presentation dated October 23, 2007, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the third quarter of 2007, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, this information is available on the Company's Web site at http://www.investors.averydennison.com.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including synergies expected from the integration of the Paxar business in the time and at the cost anticipated; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements; fluctuations in interest rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings, including the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to this investigation or to the subject matter thereof or of the concluded investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), the European Commission, and the Canadian Department of Justice (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with
Table of Contents
foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the degree to which higher raw material and energy-related costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (4) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including expected synergies associated with the Paxar acquisition.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2007. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release, included as an Exhibit to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     PASADENA, Calif.  October 23, 2007  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today reported net income of $58 million or $0.59 per share, compared with $85 million or $0.85 per share in the prior year. Results included restructuring and asset impairment charges, transition costs associated with the integration of Paxar, and other items totaling $0.41 and $0.13 in the third quarters of 2007 and 2006, respectively. (
See Attachment A-3: "Preliminary Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures".)
 
     Net sales from continuing operations for the third quarter were $1.68 billion, up approximately 19 percent from $1.42 billion for the same quarter last year. Sales before the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation were essentially unchanged from prior year.
     "Weaker retail demand in the U.S. affected sales growth in our office products and retail information services businesses," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "While core volumes continue to grow overall, heightened competitive pressure in pressure sensitive-materials negatively impacted price and mix during the quarter. "
     "In the face of these more challenging market conditions, we are taking a number of steps to drive productivity improvement and increase the top line," he added. "We are intensifying our efforts to find operational efficiencies and reduce costs. We are also partnering with customers to develop creative solutions to help them grow, tripling the number of Horizon 1 growth projects that could generate substantial revenue gains."
     "We remain on track to achieve targeted cost synergies through the integration of Paxar with Retail Information Services," Scarborough said. "We have completed the planning phase and are executing the integration of the two companies. These actions include the elimination of Paxar headquarter costs and the closure of two facilities in Mexico by the end of this year. With the execution of synergy plans well underway, we are now shifting the focus to accelerating top line growth."
     "While we are experiencing some current headwinds from weak retail markets in the U.S. and a softening of demand in Europe, Avery Dennison remains well positioned for the future with strong brands, leading market share and relative
 
economies of scale," he said. "Emerging markets and radio frequency identification are two of our most significant growth opportunities. The Paxar acquisition significantly increases our presence in the RFID market. We estimate about $50 million in sales from RFID related products next year."
Additional Third Quarter Financial Highlights
(For a more detailed presentation of the Company's results for the quarter, see , posted at the Company's Web site at .)
Third Quarter 2007 Financial Review and Analysis
www.investors.averydennison.com
 
Segment Highlights
(See Attachment A-4: "Preliminary Supplementary Information, Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Supplementary Information" for adjusted operating margins included below.)
 
Outlook for the Year
     Reflecting third quarter results and the Company's current outlook for the fourth quarter, Avery Dennison announced that it expects earnings per share for 2007, before restructuring charges and Paxar integration costs, to be in the range of $3.75 to $3.85.
     The Company's earnings expectations reflect an assumption of reported revenue growth in the range of 12.5 to 13.5 percent, including an 8 percent contribution from the Paxar acquisition (net of divestitures), and an estimated 4 to 4.5 percent benefit from currency translation.
(For a more detailed presentation of the Company's assumptions underlying its 2007 earnings expectations, see , posted at the Company's Web site at .)
Third Quarter 2007 Financial Review and Analysis
www.investors.averydennison.com
Note: Throughout this release, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
     Avery Dennison is a global leader in pressure-sensitive labeling materials, retail tag, ticketing and branding systems, and office products. Based in Pasadena, Calif., Avery Dennison is a FORTUNE 500 Company with 2006 sales of $5.6 billion. Following the acquisition of Paxar in 2007, Avery Dennison employs more than
 
30,000 individuals in 51 countries worldwide, who develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for both consumer and industrial markets. Products offered by Avery Dennison include: Fasson brand self-adhesive materials; Avery Dennison and Paxar brand products for the retail and apparel industries; Avery brand office products and graphics imaging media; specialty tapes, peel-and-stick postage stamps, and labels for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and durable goods applications.
     
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
     Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or expected results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including synergies expected from the integration of the Paxar business in the time and at the cost anticipated; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements; fluctuations in interest rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings, including the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining to this investigation or to the subject matter thereof or of the concluded investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), the European Commission, and the Canadian Department of Justice (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in China; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters; and other factors.
     The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its ability to achieve its stated financial expectations in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the degree to which higher raw material and energy-related costs can be passed on to customers through selling price increases (and previously implemented selling price increases can be sustained), without a significant loss of volume; (4) potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and/or investigations regarding competitive activities, including possible fines, penalties, judgments or settlements; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions, including expected synergies associated with the Paxar acquisition.
 
     For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2007, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this news release are made only as of the date of this news release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-2
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative (e.g. gains on sales of assets, restructuring charges, asset impairments, effects of acquisitions and related costs, etc.), from certain of the Company's GAAP measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's "core" or "underlying" operating results. These non-GAAP measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. The Company applies a quarterly tax rate to the accounting adjustments in order for the year-to-date tax rate on non-GAAP income to be consistent with the year-to-date GAAP tax rate.
Limitations associated with the use of the Company's non-GAAP measures include (1) the exclusion of items that recur from time to time (e.g. restructuring, asset impairment charges, discontinued operations, etc.) from calculations of the Company's earnings and operating margin; (2) the exclusion of the effects of acquisitions, including integration costs and certain non-recurring financing costs; (3) the exclusion of interest expense from the calculation of the Company's operating margin; and (4) the exclusion of any mandatory debt service requirements, as well as the exclusion of other uses of the cash generated by operating activities that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchase, acquisitions, etc.) for calculation of free cash flow. While some of the items the Company excludes from GAAP measures recur, these items tend to be disparate in amount and timing. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-3
(continued)
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-4
Operating income for the third quarter of 2007 includes $28.8 of asset impairment charges, restructuring costs and lease cancellation charges, $16 of transitions costs associated with Paxar integration and $4.8 of certain non-recurring financing costs; of the total $49.6, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $14, the Retail Information Services segment recorded $28, the Office and Consumer Products segment recorded $.5, the other specialty converting businesses recorded $1.5 and Corporate recorded $5.6.
(1)
Operating income for the third quarter of 2006 includes $13 related to environmental remediation costs, $6.1 of restructuring costs and asset impairment charges and miscellaneous taxes of $.4 related to a divestiture; of the total $19.5, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $.8, the Retail Information Services segment recorded $3.6, the Office and Consumer Products segment recorded $.4, the other specialty converting businesses recorded $1.7 and Corporate recorded $13.
(2)
 
A-5
Operating income for 2007 includes $41.3 of asset impairment charges, restructuring costs and lease cancellation charges, $26.2 of transition costs associated with Paxar integration, $4.8 of certain non-recurring financing costs and $.3 of expenses related to a divestiture, partially offset by reversal of ($3.2) related to a patent lawsuit; of the total $69.4, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $12.8, the Retail Information Services segment recorded $48.1, the Office and Consumer Products segment recorded $1.4, the other specialty converting businesses recorded $1.5 and Corporate recorded $5.6.
(1)
Operating income for 2006 includes $19.4 of restructuring costs and asset impairment charges, $13 related to environmental remediation costs, legal accrual related to a patent lawsuit of $.4, miscellaneous taxes of $.4 related to a divestiture and charitable contribution of $10 to Avery Dennison Foundation, partially offset by gain on sale of investment of ($10.5) and gain from curtailment and settlement of a pension obligation of ($1.6); of the total $31.1, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $6.9, the Retail Information Services segment recorded $7.9, the Office and Consumer Products segment recorded ($.4), the other specialty converting businesses recorded $2.4 and Corporate recorded $14.3.
(2)
 
A-6
 
A-7
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


