FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20091027084636.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's (the "Company") news release dated October 27, 2009, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the third quarter of 2009, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the webcast and teleconference call, please go to the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Avery Dennison Corporation's presentation dated October 27, 2009, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the third quarter of 2009, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, this information is available on the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On October 22, 2009, the Board of Directors ("Board") of the Company elected Debra L. Reed to the Board. In connection with Ms. Reed's election, the Board amended the Company's Bylaws to provide that the Board shall have twelve (12) members, Richard M. Ferry resigned from the Board as a Class II director, Ms. Reed was elected as a Class II director and Mr. Ferry was reelected as a Class III director. The resignation and reelection of Mr. Ferry was effected in order to more evenly distribute the number of directors among each of our three classes of directors after Mr. Ferry retires following the annual stockholders meeting in 2010 pursuant to the retirement provision of the Company's Bylaws. The balancing of the number of directors in each class was effected through the resignation and reelection of Mr. Ferry solely to satisfy the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law and, for all other purposes, Mr. Ferry's service on the Board is deemed to have continued uninterrupted and Mr. Ferry will continue to serve on the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Executive Personnel Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee. Ms. Reed was appointed to the Compensation and Executive Personnel Committee. A copy of the news release announcing Ms. Reed's election to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.3 hereto.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On October 22, 2009, the Board amended Section 2 of Article III of the Company's Bylaws to increase the size of the Board of Directors from 11 to 12 members. The text of the amended Section 2 of Article III of the Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 3.2.1 hereto.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings, including a previous government investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining thereto or to the subject matter thereof related to the concluded investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products and on the carrying value of its assets; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (4) the impact of an increase in costs associated with the Company's debt; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on February 25, 2009. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release, included as an Exhibit to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 3.2.1
Article III  Directors
Section 2
. Number and Qualification of Directors.
The number of directors of the corporation shall be twelve (12) until changed by a Bylaw amending this Section 2 of this Article III, duly adopted by the board of directors or by the stockholders.

Exhibit 99.1
     PASADENA, Calif.  October 27, 2009  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced preliminary third quarter 2009 results.
     All non-GAAP terms are reconciled to GAAP in the attached tables.
($ millions, except per share amounts)
Third Quarter Financial Summary  Preliminary
 
     "In the face of continuing tough market conditions we increased operating margin, reflecting the strength of our franchise businesses and the effectiveness of our operating model," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive
1
 
officer of Avery Dennison. "The combination of fixed-cost reductions and increasing variable margins positions the Company for strong profit growth when markets improve."
     "While the rate of volume decline in the third quarter improved compared with the first half of the year, this was largely due to a slowdown in inventory reductions," Scarborough said. "Our end-markets remain soft, and we continue to be cautious about the pace of their recovery."
     "I want to note the excellent performance of our employees in such uncertain times," Scarborough said. "They have maintained their focus on serving our customers, operating our businesses, and laying the groundwork for the future. This has been hard work, and they've done a tremendous job."
     For more details on the Company's results for the quarter, see the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Third Quarter 2009 Financial Review and Analysis," posted at the Company's Web site at www.investors.averydennison.com, and furnished under Form 8-K with the SEC.
Third Quarter, 2009 Results by Segment
All references to sales reflect comparisons on an organic basis, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency translation. All references to operating margin exclude the impact of restructuring, asset impairment charges, lease cancellation costs, and other items.
Pressure-sensitive Materials (PSM)
2
 
Retail Information Services (RIS)
Office and Consumer Products (OCP)
Other specialty converting businesses
3
 
Consolidated Items and Actions
     Avery Dennison is a recognized industry leader that develops innovative identification and decorative solutions for businesses and consumers worldwide. The Company's products include pressure-sensitive labeling materials; graphics imaging media; retail apparel ticketing and branding systems; RFID inlays and tags; office products; specialty tapes; and a variety of specialized labels for automotive, industrial and durable goods applications. A FORTUNE 500 Company with sales of $6.7 billion in 2008, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit .
www.averydennison.com
4
 
     
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings, including a previous government investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining thereto or to the subject matter thereof related to the concluded investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products and on the carrying value of its assets; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (4) the impact of an increase in costs associated with the Company's debt; and (5) the ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, filed on February 25, 2009, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
For more information and to listen to a live broadcast or an audio replay of the Third Quarter conference call with analysts, visit the Avery Dennison Web site at
www.investors.averydennison.com
5
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-2
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Accordance with SEC Regulations G and S-K
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative (e.g. restructuring charges, asset impairments, legal settlement costs, certain effects of acquisitions and related integration costs, loss from debt extinguishment, gains on sales of assets, etc.), from certain of the Company's GAAP measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's "core" or "underlying" operating results. These non-GAAP measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. The Company adjusts the estimated full-year GAAP tax rate to exclude the tax rate effect of charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments to determine its anticipated adjusted non-GAAP tax rate to derive non-GAAP net income.
Limitations associated with the use of the Company's non-GAAP measures include (1) the exclusion of items that recur from time to time (e.g. restructuring, asset impairment charges, discontinued operations, etc.) and items that occur infrequently (e.g. legal settlement costs, loss from debt extinguishment) from calculations of the Company's earnings and operating margin; (2) the exclusion of certain effects of acquisitions, including integration costs and certain financing costs; (3) the exclusion of interest expense from the calculation of the Company's operating margin; and (4) the exclusion of any mandatory debt service requirements, as well as the exclusion of other uses of the cash generated by operating activities that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchase, acquisitions, etc.) for calculation of free cash flow. While certain items that the Company excludes from GAAP measures recur, these items tend to be disparate in amount and timing. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-3
(continued)
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-4
 
 
A-5
 
 
A-6
 
A-7

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
PASADENA, Calif.  October 22, 2009  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced that its board of directors has elected Debra L. Reed a director of the Company, effective October 22, 2009.
Reed is president and chief executive officer of San Diego Gas & Electric and Southern California Gas Co., the regulated utilities of Sempra Energy, the San Diego-based Fortune 500 energy services holding company. San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) serves 3.4 million consumers in San Diego and southern Orange counties and Southern California Gas (SoCalGas) is the nation's largest natural gas distribution utility, serving 20.5 million consumers in central and southern California.
"Debbie Reed brings a rich combination of technical, operating and marketing expertise to our board of directors," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison. "Under her leadership, Sempra's utilities are pioneering the use of information technology such as smart meters to promote energy efficiency. We will benefit from her insights into driving customer-focused change."
Reed's 31 years with Sempra Energy have included roles in human resources, administrative services, engineering, and marketing, as well as senior leadership. She was appointed president and CEO of SDG&E and SoCalGas in October 2006 after six years in senior leadership roles at both utilities, among them chief operating officer and chief financial officer as well as president. Before that, Reed served as president of Energy Distribution Services at SoCalGas, overseeing the company's operations for residential, small commercial and industrial customers. From 1995 to 2000, she served as senior vice president of SoCalGas.
Reed serves on the board of directors for Halliburton Company; the Jacobs School of Engineering of the University of California, San Diego; the Precourt Institute for Energy Efficiency at Stanford University; and the San Diego Regional Economic Development Corp. She is also a member of The Trusteeship, an affiliate of the International Women's Forum.
 
Reed is the recipient of numerous awards and recognition, including the California Science Center's "Woman of the Year" award and the League of Women Voters Glass Ceiling Award. She graduated summa cum laude from the University of Southern California with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering.
Avery Dennison is a recognized industry leader that develops innovative identification and decorative solutions for businesses and consumers worldwide. The Company's products include pressure-sensitive labeling materials; graphics imaging media; retail apparel ticketing and branding systems; RFID inlays and tags; office products; specialty tapes; and a variety of specialized labels for automotive, industrial and durable goods applications. A FORTUNE 500 Company with sales of $6.7 billion in 2008, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has more than 32,000 employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit www.averydennison.com.


