FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20100728084528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's (the "Company") news release dated July 28, 2010, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the second quarter of 2010, including its guidance for the 2010 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, which is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 1:00 p.m (ET). To access the webcast and teleconference call, please go to the Company's web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Avery Dennison Corporation's presentation dated July 28, 2010, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the second quarter of 2010, including its guidance for the 2010 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2, which is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, this information is available on the Company's web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; collection of receivables from customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products and on the carrying value of its assets; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling
Table of Contents
price increases, without a significant loss of volume; and (4) the impact of changes in tax laws and regulations throughout the world.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, filed on March 1, 2010. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release and presentation, included as Exhibits to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
PASADENA, Calif.  July 28, 2010  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced preliminary, unaudited second quarter 2010 results. All non-GAAP terms are reconciled to GAAP in the attached tables.
($ millions, except per share amounts)
Second Quarter Financial Summary  Preliminary
 
     "Avery Dennison delivered a strong second quarter, with double-digit sales growth and solid margin expansion," said Dean A. Scarborough, Avery Dennison chairman, president and CEO. "I'm especially pleased with the improved performance of Retail Information Services, which expanded operating margin above pre-recession levels. Our core pressure-sensitive materials businesses had solid results, including double-digit sales growth in all regions, and our investments
 
in marketing have enabled us to convert more brand owners to pressure-sensitive solutions from other labeling technologies.
     "The second half of the year will be more challenging than the second quarter, which is traditionally our strongest," Scarborough said. "While we expect solid second-half revenue growth, margins will come under pressure from rising raw material costs and Office Products' investments in innovation and demand creation. At the same time, we are on track to exceed our original target for strong free cash flow.
     "We are confident about our future," Scarborough said. "We have leadership positions in rapidly growing emerging markets, which continue to lead the global economic recovery. As the world's leading producer of RFID inlays, we're excited by the accelerating growth in demand for item-level retail tagging solutions and other applications. Our investments in developing branding and information solutions are starting to pay off in innovative products and solutions, better service and stronger customer relationships. We are well positioned for long-term profitable growth."
     For more details on the Company's results, see the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Second Quarter 2010 Financial Review and Analysis," posted at the Company's Web site at www.investors.averydennison.com, and furnished under Form 8-K with the SEC.
Second Quarter 2010 Results by Segment
All references to sales reflect comparisons on an organic basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation. All references to operating margin exclude the impact of restructuring, asset impairment charges, and other items.
Pressure-sensitive Materials (PSM)
 
Retail Information Services (RIS)
Office and Consumer Products (OCP)
Other specialty converting businesses
 
Consolidated Items and Actions
2010 Outlook
The Company has adjusted its previous guidance. In the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Second Quarter 2010 Financial Review and Analysis," the Company provides a list of factors that it believes will contribute to its 2010 financial results. Based on the factors listed and other assumptions, the Company now expects reported revenue growth of 7 to 8 percent, adjusted (non-GAAP) Earnings Per Share of $2.60 to $2.80, and Free Cash Flow in 2010 of approximately $350 million.
Note: Throughout this release and the supplemental presentation materials, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis reflect fully-diluted shares outstanding.
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) helps make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. For 75 years the company has been a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and materials, retail branding and information solutions, and organization and identification products for offices and consumers. A FORTUNE 500 company with sales of $6 billion in 2009, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit www.averydennison.com.
 
Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; collection of receivables from customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products and on the carrying value of its assets; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; and (4) the impact of changes in tax laws and regulations throughout the world.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, filed on March 1, 2010, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
For more information and to listen to a live broadcast or an audio replay of the Second Quarter conference call with analysts, visit the Avery Dennison Web site at www.investors.averydennison.com
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-2
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Accordance with SEC Regulations G and S-K
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative (e.g. restructuring charges, asset impairments, legal settlements, certain effects of acquisitions and related integration costs, loss from debt extinguishment, loss from curtailment and settlement of pension obligations, gains or losses on sale of certain assets, etc.), from certain of the Company's GAAP measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's "core" or "underlying" operating results. These non-GAAP measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. The Company adjusted the estimated GAAP tax rate to exclude the full year estimated tax effect of charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, restructuring costs and asset impairment and lease cancellation charges, legal settlements, loss from debt extinguishment, and loss from curtailment and settlement of pension obligations to determine its adjusted non-GAAP tax rate to derive non-GAAP net income.
Limitations associated with the use of the Company's non-GAAP measures include (1) the exclusion of items that recur from time to time (e.g. restructuring, asset impairment charges, discontinued operations, etc.) and items that occur infrequently (e.g. legal settlement costs, loss from debt extinguishment) from calculations of the Company's earnings and operating margin; (2) the exclusion of certain effects of acquisitions, including integration costs and certain financing costs; (3) the exclusion of interest expense from the calculation of the Company's operating margin; and (4) the exclusion of any mandatory debt service requirements, as well as the exclusion of other uses of the cash generated by operating activities that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchase, acquisitions, etc.) for calculation of free cash flow. While certain items that the Company excludes from GAAP measures recur, these items tend to be disparate in amount and timing. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES (In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-3 (continued)
 
 
 
A-4
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2010 presentation.
 
A-5
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2010 presentation.
 
A-6
 
A-7
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2010 presentation.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


