FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20100129084558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's (the "Company") news release dated January 29, 2010, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the fourth quarter of 2009, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, the Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference call today at 1:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the webcast and teleconference call, please go to the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Avery Dennison Corporation's presentation dated January 29, 2010, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the fourth quarter of 2009, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. This information is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. Additionally, this information is available on the Company's Web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings, including a previous government investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining thereto or to the subject matter thereof related to the concluded investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency
Table of Contents
exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products and on the carrying value of its assets; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; and (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's Form 10-K, filed on February 25, 2009. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release and presentation, included as Exhibits to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
     PASADENA, Calif.  January 29, 2010  Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced preliminary fourth quarter and full-year 2009 results.
     All non-GAAP terms are reconciled to GAAP in the attached tables.
($ millions, except per share amounts)
Fourth Quarter Financial Summary  Preliminary
 
Page 1 of 7
 
($ millions, except per share amounts)
Full Year Financial Summary  Preliminary
 
     "We completed 2009 with record free cash flow and significantly accelerated debt reduction while operating in the most difficult economic environment in decades," said Dean A. Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison.
     "While end markets remain soft, fourth-quarter sales reflect stabilizing inventory levels, resulting in solid improvement compared to the first half of the year," Scarborough said. "Our restructuring and productivity initiatives helped us expand gross margin and continue to invest for the future.
     "Our leading market share in our core businesses and increased operating leverage position us well for strong profitable growth as markets recover," Scarborough said. "Our employees demonstrated great discipline in 2009, and I'm confident they will continue to do so in 2010 as we increase our focus on growth."
Page 2 of 7
 
          For more details on the Company's results, see the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Fourth Quarter 2009 Financial Review and Analysis," posted at the Company's Web site at www.investors.averydennison.com, and furnished under Form 8-K with the SEC.
Fourth Quarter, 2009 Results by Segment
All references to sales reflect comparisons on an organic basis, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, foreign currency translation, and the impact of an extra week in the 2009 fiscal year. All references to operating margin exclude the impact of restructuring, asset impairment charges, lease cancellation costs, and other items.
Pressure-sensitive Materials (PSM)
Retail Information Services (RIS)
 
Page 3 of 7
 
Office and Consumer Products (OCP)
Other specialty converting businesses
Consolidated Items and Actions
Page 4 of 7
 
2010
          In the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Fourth Quarter 2009 Financial Review and Analysis," the Company provides a list of factors that it believes will contribute to its 2010 financial results. Based on the factors listed and other assumptions, EPS results in 2010 could be as follows:
 
Within the range of scenarios provided above, the Company estimates Free Cash Flow in 2010 of $300 to $350 million.
This information is provided for illustrative purposes only.
Note: Throughout this release, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis
Page 5 of 7
 
reflect fully-diluted shares outstanding.
Avery Dennison is a recognized industry leader that develops innovative identification and decorative solutions for businesses and consumers worldwide. The Company's products include pressure-sensitive labeling materials; graphics imaging media; retail apparel ticketing and branding systems; RFID inlays and tags; office products; specialty tapes; and a variety of specialized labels for automotive, industrial and durable goods applications. A FORTUNE 500 Company with sales of $6 billion in 2009, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit www.averydennison.com.
          
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings, including a previous government investigation into industry competitive practices, and any related proceedings or lawsuits pertaining thereto or to the subject matter thereof related to the concluded investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") (including purported class actions seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the announcement of the DOJ investigation), as well as the impact of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products and on the carrying value of its assets; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; and (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, filed on February 25, 2009, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Page 6 of 7
 
For more information and to listen to a live broadcast or an audio replay of the Fourth Quarter conference call with analysts, visit the Avery Dennison Web site at www.investors.averydennison.com
Page 7 of 7
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-2
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Accordance with SEC Regulations G and S-K
Avery Dennison reports financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative (e.g. restructuring charges, asset impairments, legal settlement costs, certain effects of acquisitions and related integration costs, loss from debt extinguishment, gains on sales of assets, etc.), from certain of the Company's GAAP measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's "core" or "underlying" operating results. These non-GAAP measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. The Company adjusted the estimated GAAP tax rate to exclude the full year estimated tax effect of charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, restructuring costs and asset impairment and lease cancellation charges, legal settlement costs, loss from debt extinguishment, transition costs associated with acquisition integrations and gain on sale of investments to determine its adjusted non-GAAP tax rate to derive non-GAAP net income.
Limitations associated with the use of the Company's non-GAAP measures include (1) the exclusion of items that recur from time to time (e.g. restructuring, asset impairment charges, discontinued operations, etc.) and items that occur infrequently (e.g. legal settlement costs, loss from debt extinguishment) from calculations of the Company's earnings and operating margin; (2) the exclusion of certain effects of acquisitions, including integration costs and certain financing costs; (3) the exclusion of interest expense from the calculation of the Company's operating margin; and (4) the exclusion of any mandatory debt service requirements, as well as the exclusion of other uses of the cash generated by operating activities that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchase, acquisitions, etc.) for calculation of free cash flow. While certain items that the Company excludes from GAAP measures recur, these items tend to be disparate in amount and timing. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends.
The reconciliation set forth below is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-3
(continued)
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-4
 
Beginning in 2009, the Company modified its approach to allocating Corporate costs to its operating segments to better reflect the costs required to support operations within segment results. Prior year amounts have been restated to conform with the new methodology.
 
A-5
 
Beginning in 2009, the Company modified its approach to allocating Corporate costs to its operating segments to better reflect the costs required to support operations within segment results. Prior year amounts have been restated to conform with the new methodology.
 
A-6
 
A-7

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
THIS AGREEMENT, dated *, is made by and between Avery Dennison Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Company") and *, an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary ("Employee").
WHEREAS, the Compensation and Executive Personnel Committee of the Company's Board of Directors ("Committee") or the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), as authorized by the Committee, has decided to grant an Award of performance units ("PUs") provided for herein to Employee under the terms of the Employee Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended and restated ("Plan");
NOW, THEREFORE, Company and Employee agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1  DEFINITIONS
Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given in the Plan, except as noted.
ARTICLE 2  TERMS OF AWARD
2.1 PU Award
As of the date of this Agreement, the Company grants to Employee a PU Award representing a right to receive * shares of the Company's Common Stock in the future, assuming that the Company's results at the end of the performance period produce 100% of the target performance, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Notice of Grant of Award ("Notice") and the Plan. Each PU Award represents one hypothetical share of Common Stock of the Company at 100% target performance. The PU Award shall be held on the books and records of the Company (or its designee) for the Employee's PU account, but shall not represent an equity interest in the Company until such time as actual shares shall be issued to the Employee. The PU Award shall be earned, vested and paid as set forth in this Agreement.
2.2 Performance Period
(a) No portion of the PU Award may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered by the Employee until the PU Award is earned and the shares are issued. Employee must be employed by the Company from the date of this Agreement until the date that the PU Award is earned and vested, except as provided in Section 2.5. The "Performance Period" shall be [January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012]. Except as provided in Sections 2.3 and 2.4, after the end of the Performance Period, the specific number of shares of Common Stock to be issued to the Employee under the PU Award shall be determined based on the Company's results during the Performance Period compared against the performance goal ("Goal") approved by the Committee (as modified by any adjustment items approved by the Committee). The Goal is referred to in the Notice.
(b) Except as provided in Sections 2.3 and 2.4, the PU Award will be earned and vested on the date of the Committee's certification of results of the Goal after the end of the Performance Period.
(c) Subject to Sections 2.3 through 2.5 of this Agreement, if the Employee's employment with the Company is terminated, the PU Award, which has not been earned by the time of the Employee's Termination of Employment, shall be forfeited by the Employee.
 
2.3 Change of Control
In the event of a Change of Control prior to the determinations referred to in Section 2.2(a) having been made by the Committee, the PU Award granted to Employee pursuant to this Agreement will be earned and vested as of the date of such Change in Control at 100% target performance regardless of the Company's actual performance.
2.4 Death; Disability
If Employee's employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries terminates by reason of Employee's death or Disability, the PU Award will be earned and vested as of the date of Termination of Employment based on a prorated time-based formula starting with the beginning of the Performance Period through the end of month in which there is a Termination of Employment divided by the total months in the original Performance Period multiplied by the number of shares in the PU Award assuming 100% target performance.
2.5 Retirement
PU awards, granted to employees whose employment with the Company is terminated as a result of Retirement, will be earned and vested after the end of the Performance Period based on the Company's results as set forth in Section 2.2 (a) on a prorated time-based formula starting with the beginning of the Performance Period through the end of the month in which there is Termination of Employment divided by the total number of months in the Performance Period.
For the purpose of this Agreement, "Retirement" means that (i) the recipient of the PU Award is no longer employed by the Company, (ii) such recipient had been employed by the Company for a minimum of five years prior to such recipient's termination of employment, and (iii) at the time of such recipient's termination of employment, the sum of such recipient's age and years of service with the Company is at least 65.
2.6 Adjustments in PU Award
In the event that the outstanding shares of the Common Stock of the Company are changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares of the Company or other securities of the Company by reason of merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock split-up, stock dividend, combination of shares, or other similar restructuring, the Committee or the Company shall make an appropriate and equitable adjustment in the number and kind of shares represented by the PU Award granted hereunder. Such adjustment shall be made with the intent that after the change or exchange of shares, the Employee's proportionate equity interest in the Company shall be maintained as it was before the occurrence of such event.
ARTICLE 3  ISSUANCE OF COMMON STOCK
3.1 Conditions to Issuance of Common Stock
The shares of Common Stock deliverable for the PU Award, or any part thereof, may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares that have then been reacquired by the Company. Such shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable. Issuance of shares of Common Stock is subject to the following conditions:
     (a) The receipt by the Company of full payment or withholding for all related taxes. The Employee shall be liable for any and all taxes, including withholding taxes, arising out of this PU Award or the vesting of the PU Award hereunder. The Company or the Employee may elect to satisfy such withholding tax obligation by having the Company retain PUs having a fair market value equal to the Company's minimum withholding obligations;
 
     (b) Subject to Section 4.3 below, the Company shall issue via electronic transfer to the Employee's brokerage account the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the number of vested PUs (less withholding taxes) as soon as practical following the vesting of same, but in no event later than two and one-half (2.5) months after the calendar year in which the PUs vests, except that in the case of Termination of Employment under Section 2.4 or 2.5 the PUs shall be paid on the later of (i) first day of the seventh (7) calendar month beginning after the Employee's Termination of Employment, or (ii) the date referenced in Section 2.2(b). Delivery of these shares of Common Stock shall satisfy the Company's obligations under this Agreement; and
th
     (c) The Employee shall establish an equity account with a broker designated by the Company (currently ) so that the net shares from vested PUs (after withholding for applicable taxes) may be electronically transferred to the Employee's account.
                    
ARTICLE 4  MISCELLANEOUS
4.1 Agreement Subject to Plan
The Agreement is subject to the terms of the Plan, and in the event of any conflict between this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall control. The Employee shall not have the rights of a shareholder with respect to this PU Award until shares are issued to the Employee.
4.2 Administration / Compensation Recovery
The Committee or the Company shall have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such procedures for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret, modify or revoke any such procedures. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to create or imply any contract or right of continued employment between the Employee and the Company (or any of its Subsidiaries).
In the case of fraud or other intentional misconduct on the part of the Employee that necessitates a restatement of the Company's financial results, the Employee will be required to reimburse the Company for any Common Stock issued to the Employee under this Award in excess of the amount that would have been issued to the Employee based on the restated financial results.
4.3 Code Section 409A
The PU Awards granted hereunder are intended to comply in all respects with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, ("Section 409A") and this Agreement shall be interpreted accordingly. However, if at any time the Committee or the Company determines that the PUs may be subject to Section 409A, the Committee or the Company shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to amend this Agreement as it may determine is necessary or desirable for the PUs to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A.
4.4 Construction
This Agreement, the Notice and the Plan and all actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. Titles are provided in this Agreement for convenience only and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed and delivered by the parties.
 
 


