FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20110202084533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's (the "Company") news release dated February 2, 2011, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2010, including its guidance for the 2011 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K.
The Company's presentation dated February 2, 2011, regarding its preliminary financial review and analysis for the fourth quarter and full year of 2010, including its guidance for the 2011 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is being furnished (not filed) under this Form 8-K. The news release and presentation are also available on the Company's web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
The Company will discuss its preliminary financial results during a webcast and teleconference today, February 2, 2011, at 12:00 p.m. (ET). To access the webcast and teleconference, please go to the Company's web site at .
http://www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 27, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to five million additional shares of the Company's outstanding common stock, increasing the current balance of shares available for repurchase to approximately six million. In addition on such date, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share, reflecting a five cent, or 25%, increase over the previous quarterly dividend. The dividend is payable March 16, 2011 to shareholders of record as of March 2, 2011. The Company's news release dated February 2, 2011, announcing the increased dividend and authorized increase in share repurchases is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer
Table of Contents
order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; collection of receivables from customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; and (4) the impact of changes in tax laws and regulations throughout the world.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, filed on March 1, 2010 and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the news release and presentation, included as Exhibits to this Current Report, represents preliminary, unaudited financial results.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
 Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced preliminary, unaudited fourth quarter and full-year 2010 results. All non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to GAAP in the attached tables.
PASADENA, Calif., February 2, 2011
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Fourth Quarter Financial Summary  Preliminary
 
 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Full Year Financial Summary  Preliminary
 
     "We delivered solid results in 2010, led by sales growth and expanded margins in Pressure-sensitive Materials and Retail Information Services," said Dean A. Scarborough, Avery Dennison chairman, president and CEO. "Our employees did a great job serving our customers, and I want to thank them for their outstanding performance."
     "In addition, we generated strong free cash flow and exceeded our debt reduction goal for the year," Scarborough said. "Having strengthened our balance sheet, we have begun to return more cash to shareholders, through our fourth-quarter share repurchases and the dividend increase and repurchase authorization we announced today.
     "For 2011, we expect to continue our solid sales growth and margin expansion," Scarborough said. "We also will continue to invest in marketing and R&D to further advance our market leadership and generate long-term growth."
 
     For more details on the Company's results, see the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Financial Review and Analysis," posted at the Company's Web site at www.investors.averydennison.com, and furnished under Form 8-K with the SEC.
Fourth Quarter 2010 Results by Segment
All references to sales reflect comparisons on an organic basis, which exclude the impact of foreign currency translation and, where applicable, an extra week in the fiscal year 2009. All references to operating margin exclude the impact of restructuring, asset impairment charges, and other items.
Pressure-sensitive Materials (PSM)
Retail Information Services (RIS)
 
Office and Consumer Products (OCP)
Other specialty converting businesses
Other
The Board of Directors today announced a 25 percent increase in the first quarter 2011 dividend to $0.25 per share, and an authorization to repurchase an additional five million shares.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company repurchased approximately three million shares for a total cost of $109 million (offsetting dilution), and contributed $78 million to pension obligations (more than $50 million above requirements).
The fourth quarter effective GAAP tax rate of negative 60 percent included $0.42 per share from a discrete tax planning event. The adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter was negative 35 percent.
Outlook
In the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Financial Review and Analysis," the Company provides a list of factors that it believes will contribute to its 2011 financial results. Based on the factors listed and
 
other assumptions, the Company expects adjusted (non-GAAP) earnings per share of $3.00 to $3.30. The Company expects free cash flow in 2011 of $325 to $350 million.
First quarter 2011 earnings as a percentage of full-year 2011 earnings are expected to be at the low end of the historical range of 15% to 20%, reflecting normal seasonality as well as the timing of inflation and pricing actions.
Note: Throughout this release and the supplemental presentation materials, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
About Avery Dennison
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) helps make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. For more than 75 years the company has been a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and materials, retail branding and information solutions, and organization and identification products for offices and consumers. A FORTUNE 500 company with sales of $6.5 billion in 2010, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit www.averydennison.com.
Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; successful integration of acquisitions; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; customer and supplier concentrations; changes in customer order patterns; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); timely development and market acceptance of new products; fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; collection of receivables from customers; impact of competitive products and pricing; selling prices; business mix shift; volatility of capital and credit markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and to maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal proceedings; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes in governmental regulations; changes in political conditions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; worldwide and local economic conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (2) the impact of competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (3) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; and (4) the impact of changes in tax laws and regulations throughout the world.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, filed on March 1, 2010 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
For more information and to listen to a live broadcast or an audio replay of the Fourth Quarter conference call with analysts, visit the Avery Dennison Web site at www.investors.averydennison.com
Contacts
:
Media Relations: David Frail (626) 304-2014 David.Frail@averydennison.com
Investor Relations: Eric M. Leeds (626) 304-2029 investorcom@averydennison.com
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-2
Avery Dennison reports financial results in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, the comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP financial measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends, as well as liquidity.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP financial measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative (e.g. restructuring charges, asset impairments, legal settlements, certain effects of acquisitions and related integration costs, loss from debt extinguishments, loss from curtailment and settlement of pension obligations, gains or losses on sale of certain assets, etc.), from certain of the Company's GAAP financial measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's "core" or "underlying" operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. The Company adjusted the estimated GAAP tax rate to exclude the full year estimated tax effect of charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, restructuring costs and asset impairment and lease cancellation charges, legal settlements, loss from debt extinguishments, loss from curtailment and settlement of pension obligations, and gain on sale of investment to determine its adjusted non-GAAP tax rate to derive non-GAAP net income.
The Company uses the following non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying news release and presentation:
refers to the change in sales excluding the estimated impact of currency translation and, where applicable, an extra week in the fiscal year 2009;
Organic sales growth (decline)
refers to earnings before taxes and interest expense, excluding restructuring charges and other items as a percentage of sales; and
Non-GAAP operating margin
refers to net cash from operating activities (as reported), less net purchases of property, plant, equipment, software, and other deferred charges, plus proceeds from sale (purchases) of investments, net.
Free cash flow
Limitations associated with the use of the Company's non-GAAP financial measures include (1) the exclusion of items that recur from time to time (e.g. restructuring, asset impairment charges, discontinued operations, etc.) and items that occur infrequently (e.g. legal settlement costs, loss from debt extinguishments) from calculations of the Company's earnings and operating margin; (2) the exclusion of interest expense from the calculation of the Company's operating margin; and (3) the exclusion of mandatory debt service requirements, as well as the exclusion of other uses of the cash generated by operating activities that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions, etc.) from the calculation of free cash flow. While certain items that the Company excludes from GAAP financial measures recur, these items tend to be disparate in amount and timing.
The reconciliation set forth below and in the accompanying presentation is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-3 (continued)
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-4
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2010 presentation.
 
A-5
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2010 presentation.
 
A-6
 
 
A-7
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 2010 presentation.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 The Board of Directors of Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) has increased its quarterly dividend and approved a new authorization for additional share repurchases, the company announced today.
PASADENA, Calif., February 2, 2011
The board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share, reflecting a five cent, or 25 percent, increase over the previous quarterly dividend. The dividend is payable March 16, 2011 to shareholders of record on March 2, 2011.
The board also authorized the repurchase of up to five million additional shares of the company's outstanding common stock, increasing the current balance of shares available for repurchase to approximately six million.
"The board's actions demonstrate our confidence in the long-term growth of the company and our commitment to returning cash to our shareholders," said Dean A. Scarborough, Avery Dennison chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Under Avery Dennison's stock repurchase program, common shares may be repurchased from time to time by or on behalf of the company in the open market or otherwise. Repurchases may be commenced or discontinued at any time and, if commenced, may be conducted pursuant to prearranged plans.
About Avery Dennison
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) helps make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. For 75 years the company has been a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and materials, retail branding and information solutions, and organization and identification products for offices and consumers. A FORTUNE 500 company with sales of $6 billion in 2009, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit www.averydennison.com.
 
Contacts
Media Relations:
David Frail (626) 304-2014
david.frail@averydennison.com
Investor Relations: Eric M. Leeds (626) 304-2029
investorcom@averydennison.com


