FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20110428194458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) At the annual meeting of stockholders of Avery Dennison Corporation (the "Company") held on April 28, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting"), stockholders approved the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate") to declassify the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"). In addition to the changes necessary to implement declassification, the Certificate (i) removes previously repealed amendments; (ii) provides that the number of directors be fixed in accordance with the Company's bylaws; and (iii) eliminates the list of names, addresses and class appointments of the Company's initial directors. The Certificate was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 28, 2011, becoming effective on such date. Additional information concerning the Certificate was contained in the Company's 2011 proxy statement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 17, 2011 (the "2011 Proxy Statement"). A copy of the Certificate is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
In connection with the approval of the Certificate, the Board adopted Amended and Restated Bylaws as of April 28, 2011 (the "Bylaws") to (i) eliminate declassification of the Board; (ii) set the number of directors within the range of eight to 12, with the exact number to be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board; and (iii) expressly subject a director's term of office to his or her earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. Additional information concerning the Bylaws was contained in the 2011 Proxy Statement. A copy of the Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a) & (b) At the Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders (i) elected Peter K. Barker, Ken C. Hicks and Debra L. Reed to the Board for a term of three years and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified; (ii) ratified the Audit Committee's appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011; (iii) approved the Certificate to declassify the Board beginning with the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders; (iv) approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, as described in certain specified sections of the 2011 Proxy Statement; and (v) approved, on an advisory basis, the frequency with which the Company's stockholders will have an advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers.
The final results of the voting for the three director nominees described in the 2011 Proxy Statement were as follows:
The final results of the voting for proposals 2 through 4 described in the 2011 Proxy Statement were as follows:
The final results of the voting for proposal 5 described in the 2011 Proxy Statement were as follows:
(d) At a meeting held immediately before the Annual Meeting, the Board reviewed the preliminary voting results for the Annual Meeting. Based on that review and upon the recommendation of the Governance and Social Responsibility Committee, the Board determined, until the next required vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation, to hold the advisory stockholder vote on executive compensation every year.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 
Exhibits.
3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws, dated as of April 28, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 3.1
The present name of the corporation is Avery Dennison Corporation (the "Company"). The Company was incorporated under the name "Avery International Corporation" by the filing of its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on February 23, 1977. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, which restates and integrates and also further amends the provisions of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company is hereby amended, integrated and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
      The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of its registered agent at that address is United States Corporation Company.
      The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
      (a)  The Corporation is authorized to issue two classes of shares to be designated, respectively, "Common Stock" and "Preferred Stock." The total number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Four Hundred Five Million (405,000,000) shares, and the aggregate par value of all shares which are to have a par value is Four Hundred Five Million Dollars ($405,000,000). The total number of shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Five Million (5,000,000) shares, and the par value of each share of Preferred Stock is One Dollar ($1.00). The total number of shares of Common Stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Four Hundred Million (400,000,000) shares, and the par value of each share of Common Stock is One Dollar ($1.00).
      (b)  The Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series, each series to be appropriately designated by a distinguishing letter or title, prior to the issue of any shares thereof.
      (c)  The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to fix or alter the dividend rights, dividend rate, conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption (including sinking fund provisions, if any), the redemption price or prices, the liquidation preferences, any other designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of any wholly unissued series of Preferred Stock, and the number of shares constituting any such unissued series and the designation thereof, or any of them; and to increase or decrease the number of shares of any series subsequent to the issue of shares of that series, but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding. In case the number of shares of any series shall be so decreased, the shares constituting such decrease shall resume the status which they had prior to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing the number of shares of such series.
      (d)  Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article IV upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Board of Directors created a series of 1,300,000 shares of Preferred Stock designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock by filing a Certificate of Designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on December 10, 1997 and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock are set forth in Appendix A hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
     In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, repeal, alter, amend and rescind the Bylaws of the Corporation.
      The number of directors shall be fixed in accordance with the Bylaws of the Corporation.
Commencing with the 2012 annual meeting of the stockholders, directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year and shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, but subject to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Directors elected at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, directors elected at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, and directors elected at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, and in each case until their successor shall be elected and qualify but subject to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Should a vacancy occur or be created, including from an increase in the number of directors, the remaining directors (even though less than a quorum) may fill the vacancy for the full term of the class in which the vacancy occurs or is created. Any director elected or appointed to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his or her predecessor.
     Elections of directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders need not be by written ballot unless the Bylaws of the Corporation shall so provide.
      No action shall be taken by the stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders.
      Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, or by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors, or by a committee of the Board of Directors which has been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the Board of Directors or in the Bylaws of the Corporation, include the power to call such meetings, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons; provided, however, that if and to the extent that any special meeting of stockholders may be called by any other person or persons specified in any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or any amendment thereto or any certificate filed under Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, then such special meeting may also be called by the person or persons, in the manner, at the times and for the purpose so specified.
      The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred on stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
      Each reference in this Certificate of Incorporation to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law refers to the specified provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same now exists or as it may hereafter be amended or superseded.
      A director shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, provided that this Article XIII shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director (i) for any breach of his or her duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of the law; (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware; or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derives an improper personal benefit.
      If the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware is hereafter amended to authorize corporate action further limiting or eliminating the personal liability of directors, then the liability of the director to the Corporation shall be limited or eliminated to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as so amended from time to time. Any repeal or modification of this Article XIII by the stockholders of the Corporation shall be prospective only, and shall not adversely affect any limitation on the personal liability of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Avery Dennison Corporation has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 28 day of April, 2011.
th
AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION
Avery Dennison Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that the following resolution was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law at a meeting duly called and held on October 23, 1997:
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of this Corporation (hereinafter called the "Board of Directors" or the "Board") in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors hereby created a series of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock") and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the relative rights, preferences, and limitations thereof as follows:
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock:
Section I. . The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 1,300,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; , that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
provided
Section II. .
Dividends and Distributions
A. Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of             shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
B. The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
C. Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
Section III. . The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
A. Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
B. Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
C. Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
Section IV. .
Certain Restrictions
A. Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
1. declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
2. declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled.
3. redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
4. redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
B. The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such             shares at such time and in such manner.
Section V. . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares
Section VI. . Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distribution made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of share of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
Section VII. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock (into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
Section VIII. . The share of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
Section IX. . The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock.
Rank
Section X. . The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.
Amendments

Exhibit 3.2
     Avery Dennison Corporation (hereinafter called the "corporation), pursuant to the provisions of Section 109 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "General Corporation Law") adopts these Amended and Restated Bylaws (hereinafter, the "Bylaws"), which restate, amend and supersede the bylaws of the corporation, as previously amended, in their entirety as described below:
Section 1. .
Registered Office
     The registered office of Avery Dennison Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of the registered agent at that address shall be The Corporation Trust Company.
Section 2. .
Principal Office
     The principal executive office for the transaction of the business of the corporation is hereby fixed and located in Los Angeles County, California. The board of directors is hereby granted full power and authority to change said principal executive office from one location to another within or without the State of California.
Section 3. .
Other Offices
     The corporation may also have offices at such other places within or without the State of Delaware as the board of directors may from time to time determine, or the business of the corporation may require.
Section 1. .
Place of Meetings
     Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place, if any, within or outside the State of Delaware designated by the board of directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
Section 2. .
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
     The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on the last Thursday in April of each year at 1:30 p.m. of said day, or on such other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, and at such other time as shall be determined by the board of directors. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the board of directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such annual meeting of stockholders.
 
Section 3. .
Special Meetings
     A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the board of directors, or by a majority of the directors or by a committee authorized by the board to do so. Any previously scheduled special meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the board of directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such special meeting of the stockholders. Business transacted at any special meeting of the stockholders shall be limited to the purpose stated in the notice of meeting.
Section 4. .
Notice of Stockholders' Meetings
     All notices of meetings of stockholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 5 of this Article II not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting being noticed, unless otherwise required by law. The notice shall specify the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting and (i) in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the board of directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for action by the stockholders. The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the name of any nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, management intends to present for election.
Section 5. .
Manner of Giving Notice; Affidavit of Notice
     Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given either personally or by mail or telegraphic or other written communication or by electronic transmission, charges prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at the address of such stockholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the stockholder to the corporation for the purpose of notice. Whenever notice is required to be given to any stockholder to whom (1) notice of 2 consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such person during the period between such 2 consecutive annual meetings, or (2) all, and at least 2, payments (if sent by first-class mail) of dividends or interests or securities during a 12 month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at such person's address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable, the giving of such notice shall not be required. If any such person shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth such person's then current address, the requirement that notice be given to such person shall be reinstated. If mailed, notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when deposited in the United States mail, or if delivered personally or sent by means of electronic transmission, notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time provided in accordance with applicable law.
     An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any stockholders' meeting shall be executed by the secretary, assistant secretary or any transfer agent of the corporation giving such notice, and shall be filed and maintained in the minute book of the corporation.
Section 6. .
Quorum
     The presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The stockholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Section 7. .
Adjourned Meeting and Notice Thereof
     Any stockholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the Chairman of the meetingbut in the absence of a quorum, no other business may be transacted at such meeting, except as provided in Section 6 of this Article II.
,
 
     When any meeting of stockholders, either annual or special, is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, thereof (and, in the event that the adjourned meeting is to be conducted by means of remote communications, the means of remote communication by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and to vote at the meeting) are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed, or unless the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days. Notice of any such adjourned meeting, if required, shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of this Article II. At any adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
Section 8. .
Voting
     The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of this Article II. Such vote may be by voice vote or by ballot, at the discretion of the Chairman of the meeting. If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority in voting power of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on any matter shall be the act of the stockholders, unless otherwise provided by the General Corporation Law, the certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations of preferences as to any preferred stock), these Bylaws, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the corporation, or applicable law or pursuant to any rule or regulation applicable to the corporation or its securities.
     At a stockholders' meeting involving the election of directors, no stockholder shall be entitled to cumulate (i.e., cast for any one or more candidates a number of votes greater than the number of the stockholder's shares). The required vote for the election of directors shall be as set forth in Section 15 of this Article II.
 
Section 9. .
Waiver of Notice or Consent by Absent Stockholders
     The actions of stockholders taken at any meeting thereof, either annual or special, however called and noticed, and wherever held, shall be as valid as though taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either in person or by proxy, and if, either before or after the meeting, each person entitled to vote, not present in person or by proxy, gives a waiver of notice or a consent to the holding of the meeting, or an approval of the minutes thereof. The waiver of notice or consent need not specify either the business to be transacted or the purpose of any annual or special meeting of stockholders. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made part of the minutes of the meeting.
     Attendance of a person at a meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person objects, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, and except that attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters not included in the notice of the meeting if such objection is expressly made at the meeting.
Section 10. .
No Stockholder Action by Written Consent Without a Meeting
     Stockholders may take action only at a regular or special meeting of stockholders.
Section 11. .
Record Date for Stockholder Notice and Voting
     For purposes of determining the holders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days prior to the date of any such meeting, and in such case only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to notice and to vote, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date fixed as aforesaid, except as otherwise provided in the General Corporation Law.
     If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
Section 12. .
Proxies
     Every person entitled to vote for directors or on any other matter shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by proxy. Without limiting the manner in which a proxy may be granted, a stockholder may grant a proxy in the following manners: (i) by executing a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy or (ii) by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to a person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided however that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. A written proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or electronic transmission or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney in fact. A proxy which does not state that it is irrevocable shall continue in full force and effect unless (i) revoked by the person executing it, prior to the vote pursuant thereto, by a writing or electronic transmission delivered to the corporation stating that the proxy is revoked or by a subsequent proxy executed by, or attendance at the meeting and voting in person by, the person executing the proxy, or (ii) notice of the death or incapacity of the maker of such proxy is received by the corporation before the vote pursuant thereto is counted; provided, however, that no such proxy shall be valid after the expiration of three years from the date of such proxy, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
Section 13. .
Inspectors of Election; Opening and Closing the Polls
     The board of directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law.
     The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Section 14. .
Nomination and Stockholder Business
     (A) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (1) Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the board of directors or any committee thereof or (c) by the proper request of any stockholder of the corporation who was a stockholder of record of the corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Bylaw is delivered to the secretary of the corporation and at the time of the annual meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. The immediately preceding sentence shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or other business proposals (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
     (2) Without qualification or limitation, for any nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof and timely updates and supplements thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the board of directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day, nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to such annual meeting, the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation). In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting, or the public announcement thereof, commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
     (3) Notwithstanding anything in the immediately preceding paragraph to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the board of directors of the corporation is increased, effective at the annual meeting, and there is no public announcement by the corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships or specifying the size of the increased board of directors at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
     In addition, to be timely, a stockholder's notice shall further be updated and supplemented, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than five (5) business days after the record date for the meeting in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of the record date, and not later than eight (8) business days prior to the date for the meeting, any adjournment or postponement thereof in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as often (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof.
     (B) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (2) provided that the board of directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record both at the time the notice provided for in this Bylaw is delivered to the secretary of the corporation and at the time of the meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the board of directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 16 of this Article II of these Bylaws) shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to such annual meeting, the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting, or the public announcement thereof, commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
     (C) Disclosure Requirements. (1) To be proper in form, a stockholder's notice (whether given pursuant to paragraph (A) or paragraph (B) of this Bylaw) to the secretary must include the following, as applicable.
     (a) As to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, in addition to the matters set forth in paragraph (c) below: (i) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (ii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected and (iii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is being made, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant;
     (b) As to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting other than a nomination of a director or directors, in addition to the matters set forth in paragraph (c) below: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, (ii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), (iii) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and (iv) any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder;
     (c) As to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made: (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and the name and address of such beneficial owner, if any, and of their respective affiliates or associates or others acting in concert therewith, (ii) (A) the class or series and number of shares of the corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder, such beneficial owner and their respective affiliates or associates or others acting in concert therewith, (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the corporation, any derivative or synthetic arrangement having the characteristics of a long position in any class or series of shares of the corporation, or any contract, derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions designed to produce economic benefits and risks that correspond substantially to the ownership of any class or series of shares of the corporation, including due to the fact that the value of such contract, derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions is determined by reference to the price, value or volatility of any class or series of shares of the corporation, whether or not such instrument, contract or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of shares of the corporation, through the delivery of cash or other property, or otherwise, and without regard of whether the stockholder of record, the beneficial owner, if any, or any affiliates or associates or others acting in concert therewith, may have entered into transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such instrument, contract or right (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder, the beneficial owner, if any, or any affiliates or associates or others acting in concert therewith and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any class or series of shares of the corporation, (D) any agreement, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, including any repurchase or similar so-called "stock borrowing" agreement or arrangement, engaged in, directly or indirectly, by such stockholder, the purpose or effect of which is to mitigate loss to, reduce the economic risk (of ownership or otherwise) of any class or series of the shares of the corporation by, manage the risk of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder with respect to any class or series of the shares of the corporation, or which provides, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the price or value of any class or series of the shares of the corporation ("Short Interests"), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner of such general or limited partnership, (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice and any updates and supplements thereof, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household, (H) any significant equity interests or any Derivative Instruments or Short Interests in any principal competitor of the corporation held by such stockholder, and (I) any direct or indirect interest of such stockholder in any contract with the corporation, any affiliate of the corporation or any principal competitor of the corporation (including, in any such case, any employment agreement, collective bargaining agreement or consulting agreement), and (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
    (d) With respect to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the board of directors, a stockholder's notice must, in addition to the matters set forth in paragraphs (a) and (c) above, also include the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 16 of this Article II of these Bylaws. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
     (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
     (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw; provided, however, that any references in this Bylaw to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to paragraph (A) or paragraph (B) of this Bylaw (other than, as provided in the last sentence of (A)(1), matters brought properly under and in compliance with Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, as may be amended from time to time). Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors, if and to the extent provided for under law, pursuant to any applicable provisions of the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws.
 
     (D) General. (1) Only such persons who have been properly nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (C)(1)(c)(iv) of this Bylaw) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such proposed nomination or business shall be disregarded and no action shall be taken on such proposed nomination or business. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation. For purposes of this Bylaw, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
Section 15. .
Required Vote for Directors
     (A) Majority Vote. Except as otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present; provided, however, that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes of shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Bylaw, "a majority of the votes cast" shall mean that the number of shares voted "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election (with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" not counted as votes cast either "for" or "against" that director's election).
     (B) If a nominee who is an incumbent director is not elected and no successor has been elected at such meeting, the director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the board of directors in accordance with the agreement contemplated by Section 16 of this Article II of these Bylaws. The Governance and Social Responsibility Committee shall make a recommendation to the board of directors on whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The board of directors shall act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose (in a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results.
  The Governance and Social Responsibility Committee in making its recommendation, and the board of directors in making its decision, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers appropriate and relevant. The director who tenders his or her resignation shall not participate in the recommendation of the Governance and Social Responsibility Committee or the decision of the board of directors with respect to his or her resignation. If such incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the board of directors, such director shall continue to serve until the end of his or her term and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the board of directors pursuant to this Bylaw, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the board of directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 of Article III of these Bylaws or may decrease the size of the board of directors pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of Article III of these Bylaws.
Section 16. .
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
     To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 14 of this Article II) to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the secretary upon written request) that such person (A) will abide by the requirements of Section 15 of this Article II, (B) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (C) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, (D) agrees to comply with the corporation's outside directors stock ownership policies, if any, and (E) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the corporation.
Section 1. .
Powers
     Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law and any limitations in the certificate of incorporation and these Bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
     Without prejudice to such general powers, but subject to the same limitations, it is hereby expressly declared that the directors shall have the power and authority to:
     (a) Select and remove all officers, agents and employees of the corporation, prescribe such powers and duties for them as may not be inconsistent with law, the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, fix their compensation, and require from them security for faithful service.
     (b) Change the principal executive office or the principal business office in the State of California from one location to another; cause the corporation to be qualified to do business in any other state, territory, dependency, or foreign country and conduct business within or outside the State of California; designate any place within or without the State of California for the holding of any stockholders' meeting or meetings, including annual meetings; adopt, make and use a corporate seal, and prescribe the forms of certificates of stock, and alter the form of such seal and of such certificates from time to time as in their judgment they may deem best, provided that such forms shall at all times comply with the provisions of law.
     (c) Authorize the issuance of shares of stock of the corporation from time to time, upon such terms as may be lawful, in consideration of money paid, labor done or services actually rendered, debts or securities canceled or tangible or intangible property actually received.
     (d) Borrow money and incur indebtedness for the purpose of the corporation, and cause to be executed and delivered therefor, in the corporate name, promissory notes, bonds, debentures, deeds of trust, mortgages, pledges, hypothecations, or other evidences of debt and securities therefor.
Section 2. .
Number and Qualification of Directors
     The number of directors of the corporation shall be no less than eight (8) and no more than twelve (12), with the exact number to be fixed from time to time by resolution duly approved by the board of directors.
Section 3. .
Election and Term of Office of Directors
     Subject to the certificate of incorporation, directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of the stockholders, but if any such annual meeting is not held or the directors are not elected thereat, the directors may be elected at any special meeting of stockholders held for that purpose. All directors shall hold office for a term of one year or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. Irrespective of the preceding sentence, a director shall automatically be retired on the date of the expiration of the first annual meeting following his or her 72nd birthday.
Section 4. .
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
     Vacancies and newly created directorships on the board of directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Each director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the term of the person whom he or she succeeds until a successor has been elected and qualified.
     A vacancy or vacancies in the board of directors shall be deemed to exist in the case of the death, retirement, resignation, disqualification or removal of any director, or if the authorized number of directors be increased.
     Any director may resign or voluntarily retire upon giving written notice to the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors. Such retirement or resignation shall be effective upon the giving of the notice, unless the notice specifies a later time for its effectiveness. If such retirement or resignation is effective at a future time, the board of directors may elect a successor to take office when the retirement or resignation becomes effective.
     No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of his term of office. No director may be removed during his term except for cause.
Section 5. .
Place of Meetings and Telephonic Meetings
     Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the board. In the absence of such designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation. Special meetings of the board shall be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation. Any meeting, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or other communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in such meeting can hear one another, and all such directors shall be deemed to be present in person at such meeting.
Section 6. .
Annual Meetings
     Immediately following each annual meeting of stockholders, the board of directors shall hold a regular meeting for the purpose of organization, any desired election of officers and transaction of other business. Notice of this meeting shall not be required.
Section 7. .
Other Regular Meetings
     Other regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held at such time as shall from time to time be determined by the board of directors. Such regular meetings may be held without notice provided that notice of any change in the determination of time of such meeting shall be sent to all of the directors. Notice of a change in the determination of the time shall be given to each director in the same manner as for special meetings of the board of directors.
Section 8. .
Special Meetings
     Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board or the president or any vice president or the secretary or any two directors.
     Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be delivered personally or by telephone or by electronic transmission to each director or sent by first-class mail or telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at his or her address as it is shown upon the records of the corporation. In case such notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days prior to the time of the holding of the meeting. In case such notice is delivered personally, or by telephone, telegram or other form of electronic transmission, it shall be delivered personally, or by telephone, or transmitted by other electronic transmission at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the time of the holding of the meeting. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated to either the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose of the meeting nor the place if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.
Section 9. .
Quorum
     A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as hereinafter provided. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act of the board of directors. A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.
Section 10. .
Waiver of Notice
     The actions of the board of directors at any meeting thereof, however called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as though taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present gives a waiver of notice, a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof. The waiver of notice or consent need not specify the purpose of the meeting. All such waivers, consents and approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting. Notice of a meeting shall also be deemed given to any director who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director.
 
Section 11. .
Adjournment
     A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.
Section 12. .
Notice of Adjournment
     Notice of the time and place of an adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place thereof are announced at the adjourned meeting, unless the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, in which case notice of such time and place shall be given prior to the time of the adjourned meeting, in the manner specified in Section 8 of this Article III, to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.
Section 13. .
Action Without Meeting
     Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the board shall consent to such action in compliance with applicable law.
Section 14. .
Fees and Compensation of Directors
     Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses, as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the board of directors. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or otherwise, and receiving compensation for such services.
Section 15. .
Chairman of the Board
     The board of directors may, by resolution, select a member of the board of directors to act as chairman of the board. The chairman of the board shall preside over the meetings of the board of directors and shall have such other duties as may be delegated to the chairman by the board of directors. The chairman of the board shall not be an officer of the corporation, unless otherwise provided by resolution of the board of directors.
Section 1. .
Committees of Directors
     The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by the board of directors, designate one or more committees, including an executive committee, each consisting of two or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board. The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have all the authority of the board, except with respect to:
     (a) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the General Corporation Law to be submitted to the stockholders for approval; or
     (b) adopting, amending or repealing any Bylaw of the corporation.
Section 2. .
Meetings and Action of Committees
     Meetings and action of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these Bylaws, Sections 5 (place of meetings), 7 (regular meetings), 8 (special meetings and notice), 9 (quorum), 10 (waiver of notice), 11 (adjournment), 12 (notice of adjournment) and 13 (action without meetings), with such changes in the context of those Bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its members, except that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined by resolution of the board of directors as well as the committee, special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors, and notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws.
Section 1. .
Officers
     The officers of the corporation shall be the chief executive officer, the president, a vice president, a secretary and a treasurer. The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the chief executive officer or the board of directors, one or more additional vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article V. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Section 2. .
Election of Officers
     The officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 or Section 5 of this Article V, shall be chosen annually by the board of directors, and each shall hold his office until he shall resign or be removed or otherwise disqualified to serve or his successor shall be elected and qualified.
Section 3. .
Subordinate Officers, etc
     The chief executive officer or the board of directors may appoint such other officers as the business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as are provided in the Bylaws or as the chief executive officer or the board of directors may from time to time determine.
Section 4. .
Removal and Resignation of Officers
     Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the board of directors, at any regular or special meeting thereof, or, except in case of an officer chosen by the board of directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the board of directors.
     Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Section 5. .
Vacancies in Office
     A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these Bylaws for regular appointments to such office.
Section 6. .
Chief Executive Officer
     The chief executive officer shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs of the corporation. If so determined by resolution of the board of directors, the chairman of the board shall also be the chief executive officer.
Section 7. .
President
     The president shall exercise and perform such powers and duties with respect to the administration of the business and affairs of the corporation as may from time to time be assigned to him by the chief executive officer or by the board of directors, or as may be prescribed by the Bylaws. If so determined by resolution of the board of directors, the president shall also be the chief executive officer and/or the chief operating officer.
Section 8. .
Vice Presidents
     In the absence or disability of the president, a vice president designated by the board of directors shall perform all the duties of the president, and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the board of directors or the Bylaws.
Section 9. .
Secretary
     The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or such other place as the board of directors may order, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors and stockholders, with the time and place of holding, whether regular or special, and, if special, how authorized, the notice thereof given, the names of those present at directors' and committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
     The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a stock register, or a duplicate register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates issued for the same, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
     The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors required by the Bylaws or by law to be given, and he shall keep the seal of the corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by the Bylaws.
Section 10. .
Treasurer
     The treasurer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection by any director.
     The treasurer shall deposit all monies and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the chief executive officer or the board of directors. He shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the chief executive officer or the board of directors, shall render to the chief executive officer or the board of directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the chief executive officer, the board of directors or the Bylaws.
Section 11. .
Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers
     Any assistant secretary may perform any act within the power of the secretary, and any assistant treasurer may perform any act within the power of the treasurer, subject to any limitations which may be imposed in these Bylaws or in board resolutions.
Section 1. .
Indemnification and Insurance
     (A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expenses, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the board of directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right that vests at the time that such person's service to or at the request of the corporation commences and includes the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
     (B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by independent counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by independent counsel, (i) by the board of directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of disinterested directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) by a committee of disinterested directors designated by disinterested directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if a quorum of the board of directors consisting of disinterested directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent counsel in a written opinion to the board of directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iv) if a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by the stockholders of the corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by independent counsel at the request of the claimant, the independent counsel shall be selected by the board of directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, in which case the independent counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the board of directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
     (C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim, including attorney's fees to the fullest extent permitted by law. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the corporation. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its board of directors, independent counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its board of directors, independent counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
     (D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
     (E) The corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
     (F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw (i) shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise and (ii) cannot be terminated by the corporation, the board of directors or the stockholders of the corporation with respect to a person's service prior to the date of such termination. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any current or former director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
     (G) The corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any current or former director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law. To the extent that the corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such current or former director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such current or former director, officer, employee or agent.
     (H) The corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the board of directors or the chief executive officer, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any current or former employee or agent of the corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of current or former directors and officers of the corporation.
     (I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
     (J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
     (1) "disinterested director" means a director of the corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
     (2) "independent counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
 
     (K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
Section 2. .
Fiduciaries of Corporate Employee Benefit Plan
     This Article VI does not apply to any proceeding against any trustee, investment manager or other fiduciary of an employee benefit plan in such person's capacity as such, even though such person may also be an agent of the corporation as defined in Section 1 of this Article VI. Nothing contained in this Article VI shall limit any right to indemnification to which such a trustee, investment manager or other fiduciary may be entitled by contract or otherwise, which shall be enforceable to the extent permitted by Section 410 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, other than this Article VI.
Section 1. .
Record Date for Purposes Other Than Notice and Voting
     For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to any such action, and in such case only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights or to exercise the rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date fixed as aforesaid, except as otherwise provided in the General Corporation Law.
     If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board adopts the resolution relating thereto, or the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the date of such action, whichever is later.
Section 2. .
Checks, Drafts, Evidences of Indebtedness
     All checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, issued in the name of or payable to the corporation shall be signed or endorsed by such person or persons and in such manner as, from time to time, shall be determined by resolution of the board of directors.
Section 3. .
Corporate Contracts and Instruments; How Executed
     The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances; and, unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or to any amount.
Section 4. .
Stock Certificates
     The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the corporation by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the board of directors, if any, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the corporation certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the corporation. Any of or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 5. .
Lost Certificates
     Except as hereinafter in this Section 5 provided, no new stock certificate shall be issued in lieu of an old certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and canceled at the same time. The board of directors may in case any stock certificate or certificate for any other security is lost, stolen or destroyed, authorize the issuance of a new certificate in lieu thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the board of directors may require, including provision for indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Section 6. .
Representation of Stock of Other Corporations
     The chairman of the board, the president, or any vice president, or any other person authorized by resolution of the board of directors by any of the foregoing designated officers, is authorized to vote on behalf of the corporation any and all stock or other equity interest of any other corporation or corporations, foreign or domestic, standing in the name of the corporation. The authority herein granted to said officers to vote or represent on behalf of the corporation any and all stock by the corporation in any other corporation or corporations, or other entity or entities, may be exercised by any such officer in person or by any person authorized to do so by proxy duly executed by said officer.
Section 7. .
Construction and Definitions
     Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law shall govern the construction of the Bylaws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
Section 8. .
Fiscal Year
     The fiscal year of the corporation shall commence the first day of the calendar year.
Section 9. .
Seal
     The seal of the corporation shall be round and shall bear the name of the corporation and words and figures denoting its organization under the laws of the State of Delaware and year thereof, and otherwise shall be in such form as shall be approved from time to time by the board of directors.
 
Section 1. .
Amendment by Stockholders
     New Bylaws may be adopted or these Bylaws may be amended or repealed by the majority of votes cast by the stockholders, considered for purposes of this Section 1 as one class, provided that a quorum exists as defined by Article II, Section 6 of these Bylaws.
Section 2. .
Amendment by Directors
     Subject to the rights of the stockholders as provided in Section 1 of this Article VIII, to adopt, amend or repeal Bylaws, Bylaws may be adopted, amended or repealed by the board of directors.
Amended and restated as of April 28, 2011.


