FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20111026084559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's (the "Company") press release, dated October 26, 2011, announcing its preliminary, unaudited financial results for the third quarter of 2011, including its updated guidance for the 2011 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished (not filed) with this Form 8-K.
The Company's supplemental presentation materials, dated October 26, 2011, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial review and analysis for the third quarter of 2011, including its updated guidance for the 2011 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is being furnished (not filed) with this Form 8-K. The press release and presentation are also available on the Company's website at .
www.investors.averydennison.com
The Company will discuss its preliminary, unaudited financial results during a webcast and teleconference today, October 26, 2011, at 1:00 p.m. ET. To access the webcast and teleconference, please go to the Company's website at .
www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to the following: fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; changes in customer order patterns; worldwide and local economic conditions; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the Company to generate sustained productivity improvement; ability of the Company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; impact of competitive products and pricing; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); collection of receivables from customers; selling prices; business mix shift; changes in tax laws and regulations; outcome of tax audits; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; integration of acquisitions and execution of divestitures; customer and supplier concentrations; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; volatility of financial markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the Company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, health and safety; changes in governmental laws and regulations; changes in political conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the Company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (3) competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; and (4) changes in tax laws, regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2011, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the press release and supplemental presentation materials attached as exhibits to this Form 8-K is preliminary and unaudited.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Miller Corporate Center
For Immediate Release
 Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced preliminary, unaudited third quarter 2011 results. All non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to GAAP in the attached tables.
PASADENA, Calif., October 26, 2011
Third Quarter Financial Summary  Preliminary
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
    "The weak demand we experienced in the second quarter continued into the third and led to lower operating results," said Dean Scarborough, Avery Dennison chairman, president and CEO. "We now expect these trends to continue in the fourth quarter, and as a result we have reduced our 2011 outlook.
    "We continue to invest in innovation and launched a number of new products during the quarter," Scarborough said. "At the same time, our employees are doing a great job of controlling expenses and improving productivity. We are well positioned to drive long-term profitable growth once economic trends improve."
    For more details on the Company's results, see the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Third Quarter 2011 Financial Review and Analysis," posted on the Company's website at www.investors.averydennison.com, and furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC.
Third Quarter 2011 Results by Segment
All references to sales reflect comparisons on an organic basis, which exclude the estimated impact of currency translation. All references to operating margin exclude the impact of restructuring costs and other items.
Pressure-sensitive Materials (PSM)
 
 
Retail Branding and Information Solutions (RBIS)
 
Office and Consumer Products (OCP)
 
 
Other specialty converting businesses
 
 
Other
In the third quarter, the Company identified further actions to reduce fixed costs, and is now targeting approximately $55 million in annualized savings, with about one fourth of the benefit to be realized in 2011. The Company estimates that it will incur approximately $45 million in total restructuring charges associated with these actions in 2011. Cash charges are expected to approximate $42 million, with $36 million to be incurred in 2011. The Company continues to identify and assess further opportunities to increase productivity through restructuring.
The third quarter effective GAAP tax rate was 30 percent. The year-to-date adjusted tax rate increased from 23 percent to 34 percent, reflecting geographic income mix and reduced benefit from discrete tax events.
Outlook
In the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Third Quarter 2011 Financial Review and Analysis," the Company provides a list of factors that it believes will contribute to its 2011 financial results. Based on the factors listed and other assumptions, the Company now expects 2011 adjusted (non-GAAP) earnings per share of between $2.15 and $2.30 and free cash flow of between $215 million and $235 million.
Note: Throughout this release and the supplemental presentation materials, all calculations of amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
About Avery Dennison
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) helps make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. For more than 75 years the company has been a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and materials, retail branding and information solutions, and organization and identification products for offices and consumers. A FORTUNE 500 company with sales of $6.5 billion in 2010, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit www.averydennison.com.
Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to the following: fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; changes in customer order patterns; worldwide and local economic conditions; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the company to generate sustained productivity improvement; ability of the company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; impact of competitive products and pricing; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); collection of receivables from customers; selling prices; business mix shift; changes in tax laws and regulations; outcome of tax audits; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; integration of acquisitions and execution of divestitures; customer and supplier concentrations; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; volatility of financial markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, health and safety; changes in governmental laws and regulations; changes in political conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (3) competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; and (4) changes in tax laws, regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's 2010 Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2011 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
For more information and to listen to a live broadcast or an audio replay of the third quarter conference call with analysts, visit the Avery Dennison website at www.investors.averydennison.com.
:
Contacts
Media Relations:
David Frail (626) 304-2014
David.Frail@averydennison.com
Investor Relations:
Eric M. Leeds (626) 304-2029
investorcom@averydennison.com
 
A-1
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
"Other expense, net" for the third quarter of 2010 includes restructuring costs of $5.8 and other items of $4.7.
"Other expense, net" for 2011 YTD includes restructuring costs of $24.3 and other items of $13.2.
"Other expense, net" for 2010 YTD includes restructuring costs of $12.4 and other items of $9.
 
A-2
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, the comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP financial measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends, as well as liquidity.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP financial measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative, of certain items (e.g. restructuring costs, asset impairments, legal settlements, certain effects of strategic transactions and related costs, loss from debt extinguishments, loss from curtailment and settlement of pension obligations, gains or losses on sale of certain assets and other items) from certain of the Company's GAAP financial measures, the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's core or underlying operating results and liquidity measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. While some of the items excluded from GAAP financial measures may recur, they tend to be disparate in amount, frequency, and timing. The Company adjusted the estimated GAAP tax rate to exclude the full year estimated tax effect of restructuring costs and other items to determine its adjusted non-GAAP tax rate to derive non-GAAP net income.
The Company uses the following non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying news release and presentation:
refers to the increase or decrease in sales excluding the estimated impact of currency translation; 
Organic sales change
refers to earnings before taxes and interest expense, excluding restructuring costs and other items, as a percentage of sales;
Operating margin (non-GAAP)
refers to as reported net income per common share, assuming dilution, adjusted for the full year estimated tax effect of restructuring costs and other items; and
Adjusted (non-GAAP) EPS
refers to cash flow from operations, less net payments for property, plant, and equipment, software and other deferred charges, plus net proceeds from sale (purchase) of investments. Free cash flow excludes mandatory debt service requirements and other uses of cash that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions, etc.).
Free cash flow
The reconciliation set forth below and in the accompanying presentation is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-3
(continued)
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-4
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-6
 
 
 
A-7
 
 



