FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20120905152157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 4, 2012, Avery Dennison Corporation (the "Company") and 3M Company issued a statement in response to a news release from the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") regarding 3Ms proposed acquisition of the Companys Office and Consumer Products Business. The Company's news release, dated September 4, 2012, announcing the response to the DOJ announcement regarding the proposed transaction is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1 Press release, dated September 4, 2012, announcing response to DOJ announcement regarding proposed transaction.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 are forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to the following: fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; changes in customer order patterns; worldwide and local economic conditions; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the company to generate sustained productivity improvement; ability of the company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; impact of competitive products and pricing; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); collection of receivables from customers; selling prices; business mix shift; changes in tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations; outcome of tax audits; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; integration of acquisitions and completion of pending dispositions; amounts of future dividends and share repurchases; customer and supplier concentrations; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; volatility of financial markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, health and safety; changes in governmental laws and regulations; changes in political conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the companys customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors. The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Companys products; (2) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; and (3) competitors actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings. For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in the Companys 2011 Form 10-K, filed on February 27, 2012 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
Miller Corporate Center
For Immediate Release
 3M (NYSE:MMM) and Avery Dennison Corp. (NYSE:AVY) issued the following statement in response to a news release from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding 3M's proposed acquisition of Avery Dennison's Office and Consumer Products business:
ST. PAUL, Minn., and PASADENA, Calif., Sept. 4, 2012
"3M and Avery Dennison have not terminated the purchase agreement governing the transaction. In light of concerns about the transaction raised by the DOJ, the companies have voluntarily withdrawn the notification and report forms filed under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.
"The companies continue to believe the transaction would benefit customers and consumers. 3M and Avery Dennison are committed to working together to explore options to address the DOJ's concerns, obtain regulatory approval, and complete a transaction between the parties."
About Avery Dennison
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) is a global leader in labeling and packaging materials and solutions. The company's applications and technologies are an integral part of products used in every major market and industry. With operations in more than 50 countries and 30,000 employees worldwide, Avery Dennison serves customers with insights and innovations that help make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. Headquartered in Pasadena, California, the company reported sales from continuing operations of $6 billion in 2011. Learn more at .
www.averydennison.com
Contacts
:
Media Relations:
David Frail (626) 304-2014
David.Frail@averydennison.com
Investor Relations:
Eric M. Leeds (626) 304-2029
investorcom@averydennison.com


