FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20121024084535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Avery Dennison Corporation's (the "Company") press release, dated October 24, 2012, announcing its preliminary, unaudited financial results for third quarter 2012, and updating its previous guidance for the 2012 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished (not filed) with this Form 8-K.
 
The Company's supplemental presentation materials, dated October 24, 2012, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial review and analysis for third quarter 2012,
and updating its previous guidance for the 2012 fiscal year,
is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is being furnished (not filed) with this Form 8-K. The press release and presentation materials are also available on the Company's website at
www.investors.averydennison.com
.
 
The Company will discuss its preliminary, unaudited financial results during a webcast and teleconference today, October 24, 2012, at 1:00 p.m. ET.  To access the webcast and teleconference, please go to the Company's website at .
www.investors.averydennison.com
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  .
Exhibits
 
 
 
Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to the following: fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; changes in customer order patterns; worldwide and local economic conditions; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the company to generate sustained productivity improvement; ability of the company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; impact of competitive products and pricing; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); collection of receivables from customers; selling prices; business mix shift; changes in tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations; outcome of tax audits; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; integration of acquisitions and completion of pending dispositions; amounts of future dividends and share repurchases; customer and supplier concentrations; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; volatility of financial markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, health and safety; changes in governmental laws and regulations; changes in political conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
 
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; and (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's 2011 Form 10-K, filed on February 27, 2012 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
The financial information presented in the press release and supplemental presentation materials attached as exhibits to this Form 8-K is preliminary and unaudited.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Miller Corporate Center
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
PASADENA, Calif., October 24, 2012
 Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced preliminary, unaudited third quarter 2012 results.  All non-GAAP financial measures referenced in this document are reconciled to GAAP in the attached tables.  Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion of the company's results is focused on its continuing operations.
 
"In the third quarter, we delivered the strongest organic sales growth since first quarter 2011," said Dean Scarborough, Avery Dennison chairman, president and CEO.  "Continued top line momentum in Pressure-sensitive Materials and a rebound in Retail Branding and Information Solutions' core business, as well as accelerating adoption of RFID, drove better than expected earnings for the quarter.  As a result, we raised our guidance for full-year earnings per share.
 
"Our restructuring initiative is well under way, and we are on track to achieve more than $100 million in annualized savings by mid-2013," Scarborough said.  "The leaner cost structure that will result will enhance our competitive position and strengthen our ability to increase returns.
 
"We continued to repurchase shares, meeting our commitment to return more cash to shareholders while maintaining a strong balance sheet," Scarborough said.
 
For more details on the company's results, see the summary table accompanying this news release, as well as the supplemental presentation materials, "Third Quarter 2012 Financial Review and Analysis," posted on the company's website at www.investors.averydennison.com, and furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC.
 
Third Quarter 2012 Results by Segment
 
All references to sales reflect comparisons on an organic basis, which exclude the estimated impact of currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures.  Adjusted operating margin refers to earnings before interest expense and taxes, excluding restructuring costs and other items, as a percentage of sales.
 
Pressure-sensitive Materials (PSM)
 
             
Pressure-sensitive Materials segment sales increased approximately 7 percent.  Within the segment and compared to prior year, Label and Packaging Materials sales increased high single digits, and Graphics and Reflective Solutions sales increased mid-single digits.
 
             
Operating margin declined 30 basis points to 7.4 percent due to higher employee-related expenses, the impact of changes in product mix, and higher restructuring costs, partially offset by the benefit of higher volume and productivity initiatives.  Adjusted operating margin improved 40 basis points.
 
Retail Branding and Information Solutions (RBIS)
 
             
Sales increased approximately 7 percent compared to prior year driven by increased demand from U.S. and European retailers and brands, including accelerating RFID adoption.
 
             
Operating margin improved 210 basis points to 2.8 percent as the benefit of productivity initiatives, higher volume, and lower restructuring costs more than offset higher employee-related expenses and the impact of changes in product mix.  Adjusted operating margin improved 90 basis points.
 
Other specialty converting businesses
 
               
Sales decreased approximately 1 percent due to lower volume.
 
          
Operating margin improved 310 basis points to 1.9 percent driven by increased RFID profitability, partially offset by higher restructuring costs.  Adjusted operating margin improved 500 basis points.
 
Other
 
Share Repurchase
 
The company repurchased 2.9 million shares during the third quarter at an aggregate cost of $86 million.  In the first nine months of 2012, the company repurchased 7.7 million shares at an aggregate cost of $228 million.
 
Results of Discontinued Operations
 
As previously announced, the company and 3M Company have terminated the definitive agreement under which 3M would have purchased the company's Office and Consumer Products (OCP) business.  The company is continuing to pursue a divestiture of OCP.
 
Earnings from OCP and certain costs associated with its anticipated divestiture are reported as income or loss from discontinued operations (net of tax) in the consolidated income statement.
 
Earnings per share from discontinued operations increased from $0.14 to $0.20. Adjusted earnings per share from discontinued operations increased from $0.18 to $0.20.
 
Income Taxes
 
The third quarter effective tax rate was 34.5 percent.  The year-to-date adjusted tax rate for the third quarter decreased from 35.0 to 33.5 percent, in line with expectations.
 
Cost Reduction Actions
 
In the first half of 2012, the company began a restructuring program expected to be completed by mid-2013 to reduce costs across all segments of the business.  The company currently anticipates more than $100 million in annualized savings from this program.  To implement these actions, the company estimates that it will incur restructuring costs and other items of approximately $55 million and $25 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively.
 
Outlook
 
In the company's supplemental presentation materials, "Third Quarter 2012 Financial Review and Analysis," the company provides a list of factors that it believes will contribute to its 2012 financial results.  Based on the factors listed and other assumptions, the company raised its previous guidance of 2012 earnings per share from continuing operations to $1.65 to $1.70.  The company maintained its free cash flow guidance.  Excluding an estimated $0.35 per share for restructuring costs and other items, the company expects adjusted (non-GAAP) earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.00 to $2.05.
 
Note: Throughout this release and the supplemental presentation materials, amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
 
About Avery Dennison
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) is a global leader in labeling and packaging materials and solutions. The company's applications and technologies are an integral part of products used in every major market and industry. With operations in more than 50 countries and 30,000 employees worldwide, Avery Dennison serves customers with insights and innovations that help make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. Headquartered in Pasadena, California, the company reported sales from continuing operations of $6 billion in 2011.  Learn more at www.averydennison.com.
 
Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to the following: fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; changes in customer order patterns; worldwide and local economic conditions; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the company to generate sustained productivity improvement; ability of the company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; impact of competitive products and pricing; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); collection of receivables from customers; selling prices; business mix shift; changes in tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations; outcome of tax audits; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; integration of acquisitions and completion of pending dispositions; amounts of future dividends and share repurchases; customer and supplier concentrations; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; volatility of financial markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, health and safety; changes in governmental laws and regulations; changes in political conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
 
The company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for the company's products; (2) competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; and (3) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume.
 
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the company's 2011 Form 10-K, filed on February 27, 2012 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
For more information and to listen to a live broadcast or an audio replay of the quarterly conference call with analysts, visit the Avery Dennison website at www.investors.averydennison.com
 
Contacts
:
 
Media Relations:
David Frail (626) 304-2014
David.Frail@averydennison.com
 
Investor Relations:
Eric M. Leeds (626) 304-2029
investorcom@averydennison.com
 
 
 
(a)
          
Percentage change in sales excluding the estimated impact of foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures.
(b)
          
Excludes restructuring costs and other items (see accompanying schedules A-2 and A-5 for reconciliation to GAAP financial measures).
(c)
          
Free cash flow refers to cash flow from operations, less net payments for property, plant, and equipment, software and other deferred charges, plus (minus) net proceeds from sales (purchases) of investments. Free cash flow excludes mandatory debt service requirements and other uses of cash that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchases, and certain effects of acquisitions and divestitures).
 
A-1
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
(1)
                                
"Other expense, net" for the third quarter of 2012 includes severance and related costs of $17.6, asset impairment charges of $1.5, costs associated with exiting product lines of $2.1, and certain transaction costs of $.7.
 
"Other expense, net" for the third quarter of 2011 includes severance and related costs of $14.7, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $.3, certain transaction costs of $2.7, and legal settlement of $.4.
 
"Other expense, net" 2012 YTD includes severance and related costs of $33.2, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $3.7, certain transaction costs of $2.7, and costs associated with exiting product lines of $2.1, partially offset by gain on sale of product line of $.6.
 
"Other expense, net" 2011 YTD includes severance and related costs of $24.6, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $3.6, and certain transaction costs of $3.7, partially offset by legal settlement of $1.2.
 
 
A-2
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for or superior to, the comparable GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the company believes that supplemental non-GAAP financial measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the company's performance and operating trends, as well as liquidity.
 
 
The company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions.  The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP financial measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the company in a single period.  By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative, of certain items (e.g., restructuring costs, asset impairments, legal settlements, certain effects of strategic transactions and related costs, loss from debt extinguishments, loss from curtailment and settlement of pension obligations, gains or losses on sale of certain assets and other items), the company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the company's core operating results and liquidity measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. While some of the items excluded from GAAP financial measures may recur, they tend to be disparate in amount, frequency, and timing.
 
 
The company uses the following non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying news release and presentation:
 
Organic sales change
refers to the increase or decrease in sales excluding the estimated impact of currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures;
 
Adjusted operating margin
refers to earnings before interest expense and taxes, excluding restructuring costs and other items, as a percentage of sales;
 
Adjusted tax rate
refers to the anticipated full year GAAP tax rate adjusted for certain discrete events;
 
Adjusted EPS
refers to as reported net income per common share, assuming dilution, adjusted for the tax-effected restructuring costs and other items; and
 
Free cash flow
refers to cash flow from operations, less net payments for property, plant, and equipment, software and other deferred charges, plus (minus) net proceeds from sales (purchases) of investments. Free cash flow excludes mandatory debt service requirements and other uses of cash that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchases, and certain effects of acquisitions and divestitures).
 
The reconciliation set forth below and in the accompanying presentation is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
A-3
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
A-3 (continued)
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
(1)
               
Includes certain transaction costs, costs associated with exiting product lines, legal settlement, and gain on sale of product line.
(2)
               
Reflects tax-effected restructuring costs and other items. The negative tax rate for discontinued operations in 2011 YTD reflects required intra-period allocations that offset in the full year 2011.
 
 
A-4
 
(1) Operating income for the third quarter of 2012 includes severance and related costs of $17.6, asset impairment charges of $1.5, costs associated with exiting product lines of $2.1, and certain transaction costs of $.7. Of the total $21.9, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $12.6, the Retail Branding and Information Solutions segment recorded $5.6, the other specialty converting businesses recorded $3, and Corporate recorded $.7.
 
(2) Operating income for the third quarter of 2011 includes severance and related costs of $14.7, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $.3, certain transaction costs of $2.7, and legal settlement of $.4. Of the total $18.1, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $5.4, the Retail Branding and Information Solutions segment recorded $9.3, the other specialty converting businesses recorded $.7, and Corporate recorded $2.7.
 
 
 
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
(1) 
Operating income for 2012 includes severance and related costs of $33.2, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $3.7, certain transaction costs of $2.7, and costs associated with exiting product lines of $2.1, partially offset by gain on sale of product line of $.6. Of the total $41.1, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $21.8, the Retail Branding and Information Solutions segment recorded $10.1, the other specialty converting businesses recorded $6.5, and Corporate recorded $2.7.
 
(2) 
Operating income for 2011 includes severance and related costs of $24.6, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $3.6, and certain transaction costs of $3.7, partially offset by legal settlement of $1.2. Of the total $30.7, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment recorded $13.1, the Retail Branding and Information Solutions segment recorded $12, the other specialty converting businesses recorded $1.9, and Corporate recorded $3.7.
 
 
 
 
 
A-6
 

Exhibit 99.2
 


