FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20121207120557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(d)  On and effective December 6, 2012, upon recommendation of the Governance and Social Responsibility Committee, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Avery Dennison Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), elected Anthony K. Anderson to the Board.  Mr. Anderson has not yet been appointed to serve on any committees of the Board.
 
In connection with his election and in accordance with the Company's equity compensation program for non-employee directors, on December 6, 2012, Mr. Anderson was granted 688 restricted stock units ("RSUs") and an option to purchase 2,770 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of 100% of the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant.  The RSUs and stock options vest ratably over three years, and the stock options expire after ten years.  In addition, Mr. Anderson will be eligible to participate in the Company's other non-employee director compensation programs as described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2012.
 
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Anderson's election to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) 
Exhibits.
 
99.1
                       
Press Release, dated December 7, 2012, announcing election of Anthony K. Anderson to the Company's Board of Directors.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Miller Corporate Center
 
For Immediate Release
 
PASADENA, Calif., December 7, 2012
 Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced that its board of directors has elected Anthony K. Anderson a director, effective December 6, 2012.
 
Anderson, 57, joins the Avery Dennison board after a 35-year career with Ernst & Young LLP, the global assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services firm, from which he retired in April as vice chairperson and managing partner of the firm's Midwest region.
 
"Tony Anderson's deep financial expertise and extensive experience advising multinational businesses will serve Avery Dennison well," said Dean A. Scarborough, Avery Dennison chairman, president and chief executive officer. "He is also a highly effective business leader, and we welcome his perspective."
 
In addition to leading the Midwest region, Anderson's Ernst & Young career includes six years in the Los Angeles area as managing partner of the firm's Pacific Southwest region.  He also served as the firm's worldwide engagement partner for a number of large multinational companies and leader of the firm's insurance and financial services industry practices.
 
A former director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Anderson currently serves on the boards of directors of AAR Corporation and First American Financial Corporation.  An active civic leader, he is also a director of The Chicago Council on Global Affairs, World Business Chicago and the Chicago Urban League, of which he is chairman of the board.  In addition, he is a member of the boards of the Lyric Opera of Chicago, The Field Museum of Chicago, and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.  In Los Angeles, he has served as chairman of Town Hall Los Angeles, the Children's Bureau of Southern California, and the California Science Center.
 
Anderson holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Chicago State University.  He is a member of the American, California and Illinois Institutes of Certified Public Accountants.
 
About Avery Dennison
 
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) is a global leader in labeling and packaging materials and solutions. The company's applications and technologies are an integral part of products used in every major market and industry. With operations in more than 50 countries and 30,000 employees worldwide, Avery Dennison serves customers with insights and innovations that help make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. Headquartered in Pasadena, California, the company reported sales from continuing operations of $6 billion in 2011.  Learn more at www.averydennison.com.
Contacts
 
Media:
David Frail (626) 304-2014
david.frail@averydennison.com
 
Investor
Relations:
Eric M. Leeds (626) 304-2029
investorcom@averydennison.com


