FILE:AVY/AVY-8K-20120131084600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Avery Dennison Corporation's (the "Company") press release, dated January 31, 2012, announcing its preliminary, unaudited financial results for fourth quarter and full-year 2011, including its guidance for the 2012 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished (not filed) with this Form 8-K.
The Company's supplemental presentation materials, dated January 31, 2012, regarding its preliminary, unaudited financial review and analysis for fourth quarter and full-year 2011, including its guidance for the 2012 fiscal year, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is being furnished (not filed) with this Form 8-K. The press release and presentation materials are also available on the Company's website at .
www.investors.averydennison.com
The Company will discuss its preliminary, unaudited financial results during a webcast and teleconference today, January 31, 2012, at 1:00 p.m. ET. To access the webcast and teleconference, please go to the Company's website at .
www.investors.averydennison.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
Certain statements contained in this report on Form 8-K and in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to the following: fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; changes in customer order patterns; worldwide and local economic conditions; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the company to generate sustained productivity improvement; ability of the company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; impact of competitive products and pricing; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); collection of receivables from customers; selling prices; business mix shift; changes in tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations; outcome of tax audits; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; integration of acquisitions and completion of pending dispositions; amounts of future dividends and share repurchases; customer and supplier concentrations; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; volatility of financial markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, health and safety; changes in governmental laws and regulations; changes in political conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; and (3) competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's 2010 Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2011 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K are made only as of the date of this Form 8-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The financial information presented in the press release and supplemental presentation materials attached as exhibits to this Form 8-K is preliminary and unaudited.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Miller Corporate Center
For Immediate Release
 Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE:AVY) today announced preliminary, unaudited fourth quarter and full-year 2011 results. All non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to GAAP in the attached tables. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion of the Company's results is focused on its continuing operations.
PASADENA, Calif., January 31, 2012
Fourth Quarter Financial Summary  Preliminary
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
Full Year Financial Summary - Preliminary
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
    "Despite the challenges of softening volumes and inflation in 2011, we increased operating income before restructuring costs, and generated nearly $300 million of free cash flow," said Dean Scarborough, Avery Dennison chairman, president and CEO. "Our employees did an outstanding job of meeting this year's challenges with a strong focus on pricing, productivity, and working capital, and I want to thank them for their discipline and dedication.
    "We also announced earlier this month an agreement to sell our Office and Consumer Products business, consistent with our strategy to maximize its value for shareholders," Scarborough said.
    "For 2012, although the economic environment remains uncertain, we expect improved earnings, solid free cash flow, and increased return of cash to shareholders."
    For more details on the Company's results, see the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Financial Review and Analysis," posted on the Company's website at www.investors.averydennison.com, and furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Results by Segment
All references to sales reflect comparisons on an organic basis, which exclude the estimated impact of currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures.
Pressure-sensitive Materials (PSM)
 
 
Retail Branding and Information Solutions (RBIS)
 
 
Other specialty converting businesses
 
Other
The Company today announced an eight percent increase in the first quarter 2012 dividend to $0.27 per share.
Sale of Office and Consumer Products Business
On January 3, 2012, the Company announced that it signed a definitive agreement to sell its Office and Consumer Products business ("OCP") to 3M Company for $550 million in cash. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, and is expected to be completed in the second half of 2012. The Company's OCP earnings, combined with costs associated with the transaction, are reported as income or loss from discontinued operations (net of tax) in the consolidated income statement. OCP assets and liabilities are segregated on the balance sheet for 2011 as "held for sale". Cash flow continues to be reported on a consolidated basis.
The Company expects a combination of net proceeds and free cash flow from OCP of approximately $400 million.
Taxes
The fourth quarter effective tax rate was 22 percent. The full-year tax rate on continuing operations increased from negative one percent in 2010 to 34 percent, reflecting a significant discrete tax event in the fourth quarter of 2010, geographic income mix, and other discrete items. Fourth quarter results from continuing and discontinued operations included a negative $0.12 per share tax settlement primarily related to OCP (discontinued operations).
Cost Reduction Actions
In the fourth quarter, the Company continued to reduce fixed costs through restructuring actions, which included a reduction of corporate overhead consistent with the sale of OCP. The Company estimates approximately $55 million in annualized savings from actions taken during the year, with approximately one-fourth of the benefit realized in 2011. The Company incurred approximately $45 million in charges associated with these actions in 2011. Cash costs from continuing and discontinued operations associated with restructuring activities were $38 million and less than $1 million, respectively, in 2011. The Company continues to identify and assess further opportunities to increase productivity through restructuring.
Outlook
In the Company's supplemental presentation materials, "Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Financial Review and Analysis," the Company provides a list of factors that it believes will contribute to its 2012 financial results. Based on the factors listed and other assumptions, the Company expects 2012 earnings per share from continuing operations between $1.65 and $2.00 and free cash flow from continuing operations between $275 million and $325 million. Excluding an estimated $0.15 per share for restructuring costs and other items, the Company expects adjusted (non-GAAP) earnings per share from continuing operations of between $1.80 and $2.15.
Note: Throughout this release and the supplemental presentation materials, amounts on a per share basis reflect fully diluted shares outstanding.
About Avery Dennison
Avery Dennison (NYSE:AVY) helps make brands more inspiring and the world more intelligent. For more than 75 years the company has been a global leader in pressure-sensitive technology and materials and retail branding and information solutions. A FORTUNE 500 company with sales of $6 billion from continuing operations in 2011, Avery Dennison is based in Pasadena, California and has employees in over 60 countries. For more information, visit www.averydennison.com.
Certain statements contained in this document are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements and financial or other business targets are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties relating to the following: fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; the financial condition and inventory strategies of customers; changes in customer order patterns; worldwide and local economic conditions; fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials; ability of the company to generate sustained productivity improvement; ability of the company to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; impact of competitive products and pricing; loss of significant contract(s) or customer(s); collection of receivables from customers; selling prices; business mix shift; changes in tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations; outcome of tax audits; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations; integration of acquisitions and completion of pending dispositions; amounts of future dividends and share repurchases; customer and supplier concentrations; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; disruptions in information technology systems; successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems; volatility of financial markets; impairment of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles; credit risks; ability of the company to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest and tax rates; fluctuations in pension, insurance and employee benefit costs; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, health and safety; changes in governmental laws and regulations; changes in political conditions; impact of epidemiological events on the economy and the company's customers and suppliers; acts of war, terrorism, and natural disasters; and other factors.
The Company believes that the most significant risk factors that could affect its financial performance in the near-term include (1) economic conditions on underlying demand for the Company's products; (2) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through selling price increases, without a significant loss of volume; and (3) competitors' actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings.
For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors, see "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's 2010 Form 10-K, filed on February 28, 2011 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
For more information and to listen to a live broadcast or an audio replay of the Fourth Quarter conference call with analysts, visit the Avery Dennison website at www.investors.averydennison.com
:
Contacts
Media Relations:
David Frail (626) 304-2014
David.Frail@averydennison.com
Investor Relations:
Eric M. Leeds (626) 304-2029
investorcom@averydennison.com
 
A-1
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
"Other expense, net" for the fourth quarter of 2010 includes severance and related costs of $2.8, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $.6, and other items of $2.8.
"Other expense, net" for 2011 YTD includes severance and related costs of $35.5, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $9, and other items of $2.1.
"Other expense, net" for 2010 YTD includes severance and related costs of $10, asset impairment and lease cancellation charges of $2.7, and other items of $6.9.
 
A-2
 
Avery Dennison reports financial results in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and herein provides some non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, the comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the Company's presentation of its financial results that are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Based upon feedback from investors and financial analysts, the Company believes that supplemental non-GAAP financial measures provide information that is useful to the assessment of the Company's performance and operating trends, as well as liquidity.
The Company's non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP financial measures, may make it difficult to assess the underlying performance of the Company in a single period. By excluding certain accounting effects, both positive and negative, of certain items (e.g. restructuring costs, asset impairments, legal settlements, certain effects of strategic transactions and related costs, loss from debt extinguishments, loss from curtailment and settlement of pension obligations, gains or losses on sale of certain assets and other items), the Company believes that it is providing meaningful supplemental information to facilitate an understanding of the Company's core operating results and liquidity measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are used internally to evaluate trends in the Company's underlying business, as well as to facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for a single period. While some of the items excluded from GAAP financial measures may recur, they tend to be disparate in amount, frequency, and timing.
The Company uses the following non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying news release and presentation:
refers to the increase or decrease in sales excluding the estimated impact of currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures;
Organic sales change
refers to earnings before interest expense and taxes as a percentage of sales;
Operating margin
refers to earnings before interest expense and taxes, excluding restructuring costs and other items, as a percentage of sales;
Adjusted operating margin
refers to as reported net income per common share, assuming dilution, adjusted for the full year estimated tax effect of restructuring costs and other items; and
Adjusted EPS
refers to cash flow from operations, less net payments for property, plant, and equipment, software and other deferred charges, plus net proceeds from sale (purchase) of investments. Free cash flow excludes mandatory debt service requirements and other uses of cash that do not directly or immediately support the underlying business (such as discretionary debt reductions, dividends, share repurchases, and certain effects of acquisitions and divestitures).
Free cash flow
The Company excludes the full year estimated tax effect of restructuring costs and other items from the estimated tax rate to determine its adjusted tax rate to derive non-GAAP net income.
The reconciliation set forth below and in the accompanying presentation is provided in accordance with Regulations G and S-K and reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
A-3
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
A-3
(continued)
 
AVERY DENNISON
PRELIMINARY RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
A-4
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-5
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-6
 
 
 
A-7
 
 



