FILE:BA/BA-8K-20040129084551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Item 12, Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition).
 
The following information is being furnished under Item 12 of Form 8-K: News Release by The Boeing Company, for the fourth quarter results and updated outlook as announced on January 29, 2004. The text of the release is attached as exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Boeing Reports Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2003 Results; Updates Outlook
 
 
Financial Highlights:
 
 
Selected Operating Highlights:
 
 
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported net income of $1.1 billion for the fourth quarter, or $1.37 per share, on revenues of $13.2 billion. Reported net income for 2003 totaled $0.7 billion, or $0.86 per share, on revenues of $50.5 billion. The results include a $1.01 per share non-cash charge to revalue goodwill balances in the first quarter and a $0.87 per share gain related to a federal tax refund in the fourth quarter.
CHICAGO, Jan. 29, 2004
 
"This past year was notable both for the solid performance turned in by most of our businesses, as well as the challenges we faced," Boeing President and CEO Harry Stonecipher said. "Integrated Defense Systems delivered strong fourth-quarter operating performance and over $50 billion of new orders for the year, which strengthen our revenue outlook going forward. Despite the most severe market challenges our industry has faced, Boeing Commercial Airplanes continues to perform well in terms of productivity and profitability. With the Board's approval to begin selling the 7E7, we are well positioned as the industry recovers with an airplane we believe will provide significant benefits to airlines and passengers," he added.
 
"While there is no doubt that the emergence of ethical issues during the year was deeply disappointing to all of us, I feel strongly that we acted quickly and aggressively to address the issues," Stonecipher said. "As we move into 2004, our focus is on execution, demonstrating our commitment to integrity, and raising our performance to a new level."
 
The Company's 2003 earnings from operations of $0.4 billion reflect lower commercial airplane deliveries, commercial space charges, lower pension income, and the revaluation of commercial financing and goodwill assets (see Table 2). These factors were partially offset by continued growth and strong operating performance in the Company's portfolio of defense businesses and by continued improvements in operating efficiencies at Commercial Airplanes. Excluding the goodwill impairment charges reported earlier in the year, adjusted earnings from operations* were $1.3 billion for 2003.
 
 
 
Pre-tax expense for share-based plans totaled $108 million in the fourth quarter and $456 million for 2003 reducing earnings per share by $0.08 and $0.36, respectively. These expenses are non-cash and are attributable to the Company's equity compensation plans. Deferred stock compensation expense attributable to vested and undistributed performance shares, which is separately determined based on the quarterly change in the Company's stock price, reduced fourth quarter earnings per share by $0.04 as the Company's stock price rose in the period. For the year, deferred stock compensation expense reduced earnings per share by $0.05 as the Company's stock price increased almost 28 percent.
 
Cash flow remained strong as the Company generated $3.6 billion and $3.9 billion of operating cash flow for the fourth quarter and the full year, respectively. Discretionary cash contributions to the Company's pension plans reduced operating cash flow for 2003 by $1.7 billion, but were partially offset by a $1.1 billion dollar tax refund received in the fourth quarter. As shown in Table 3, free cash flow* for the year, measured after investments in property, plant, and equipment, also remained solid at $3.2 billion. Excluding the impact of the tax refund, free cash flow* in the fourth quarter was $2.3 billion.
 
 
 
The Company's cash balance at year end totaled $4.6 billion, up substantially from $1.7 billion at the end of the third quarter and $2.3 billion at the end of 2002 (see Table 4). Excluding BCC and non-recourse debt, the Company's debt increased slightly in 2003 to $4.7 billion after a successful debt refinancing early in the year. Debt at Boeing Capital decreased by approximately $300 million as the unit implemented its announced strategy to reduce financing portfolio growth and risk.
 
 
Segment Results
 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes
 
During 2003, Commercial Airplanes aggressively managed for profitability through the downturn in its markets while positioning itself for long-term strength. In December, Commercial Airplanes received authority from the Board of Directors to offer the 7E7 mid-sized airplane, which is designed to provide airlines with substantial gains over current-generation aircraft in efficiency, environmental friendliness, and passenger comfort. Customer interest in the 7E7 is high and the Company projects the addressable market to be approximately $400 billion over the next 20 years.
Commercial Airplanes' results for the fourth quarter and full year are summarized in Table 5 and reflect solid operating performance on planned lower delivery volumes and the third-quarter decision to complete 757 production after delivering more than 1,000 airplanes over two decades.
 
 
For 2003, Commercial Airplanes delivered 281 airplanes generating $22.4 billion of revenue. Operating earnings for the year totaled approximately $0.7 billion, reflecting lower revenues, a goodwill impairment charge in the first quarter, and the decision to conclude the 757 program. These impacts were partially offset by continued improvements in operating efficiencies. Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, adjusted operating earnings* for the year totaled approximately $1.0 billion.
 
During the fourth quarter, deliveries of commercial airplanes decreased 17 percent to 71 airplanes, and revenues fell 8 percent to $5.8 billion, when compared with the fourth quarter of 2002. Operating earnings totaled $471 million and operating margins increased to 8.1 percent.
 
Commercial Airplanes captured 81 gross orders during the quarter and 240 for the year from a broad cross-section of customers including many leading low-cost airlines. Contractual backlog totaled $63.9 billion on December 31 compared with $68.2 billion at the end of 2002.
 
Integrated Defense Systems
 
Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) delivered solid revenue growth and operating profitability as its defense and intelligence businesses continued to perform in strong markets. During 2003, IDS won unprecedented orders of more than $50 billion. IDS faced challenges in 2003 that impacted its results, primarily in its Launch and Orbital Systems segment, including continued weakness in its commercial space markets and ethics issues related to the U.S. Air Force EELV contract. However, with
a broad portfolio of traditional platforms and transformational programs along with success in winning new business, IDS is well positioned to deliver continued growth and profitability. IDS results are summarized in Table 6.
 
 
 
 
Revenues for 2003 were $27.4 billion, up 10 percent over 2002 driven by growth in all four of IDS's reporting segments. Operating earnings and margins were down from 2002 as a result of charges related to its commercial space businesses that were partially offset by improved performance in its Aircraft and Weapon Systems, Network Systems, and Support Systems businesses.
 
For the fourth quarter, IDS revenues increased to $7.2 billion primarily as a result of significant growth in its Network Systems and Support Systems segments. IDS delivered strong fourth-quarter operating margins of 8.3 percent, up from 8.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
Aircraft and Weapon Systems delivered another year of excellent profitability. Revenues rose 2 percent to $10.8 billion on increased JDAM and F/A-22 volume, which offset lower rotorcraft deliveries. Performance remained outstanding with
operating margins of 13.2 percent net of investment in the 767 Tanker program, up from 12.0 percent in 2002.
 
Network Systems continued its rapid growth and solid performance in 2003. Revenues rose 16 percent to almost $9.4 billion on increased activity in its Proprietary, Homeland Security, and Future Combat Systems programs. Operating margins remained solid at 6.7 percent on higher revenues and favorable program mix offset by cost growth on DoD satellite programs as well as a non-cash charge taken for the Resource 21 venture in the third quarter. Results for 2002 included a $100 million charge related to the development of the 737 Airborne Early Warning & Control aircraft.
 
Support Systems also delivered strong growth and excellent profitability in 2003. Revenues increased 21 percent to $4.2 billion on significant increases in spares for tactical aircraft, maintenance and modifications on transport aircraft, and integrated logistic support and services. Operating margins continued to improve, totaling 11.2 percent on higher revenue and strong program performance. During the fourth quarter, Support Systems was awarded the Malcolm Baldridge quality award in recognition of their operational excellence.
 
Launch and Orbital Systems' 2003 results were impacted by the continued weakness in commercial space markets and cost growth in its satellite business. Revenues rose 7 percent on higher deliveries of Delta launch vehicles. Operating losses totaled approximately $1.8 billion, primarily reflecting the write-down of goodwill balances in the first quarter and the charge associated with its launch and satellite businesses in the second quarter.
 
During 2003, IDS captured new business that boosted its year-end contractual backlog to $40.9 billion compared with $36.0 billion at the end of 2002. Unobligated backlog also rose significantly to $50.6 billion. Total IDS backlog, comprised of contractual and unobligated, ended 2003 at $91.5 billion compared with $70.7 billion at the end of 2002.
Boeing Capital Corporation
 
During 2003, Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC) shifted its strategy to create value by supporting the operations of the Company's business units while reducing risk. BCC's performance reflected this new strategy as customer financing portfolio growth slowed over the course of the year. BCC results are summarized in Table 7.
 
 
 
In 2003, BCC annual revenues and pre-tax income increased to $1.2 billion and $143 million, respectively, primarily reflecting the portfolio growth that occurred during the second half of 2002. For the fourth quarter, revenues rose by 11 percent to $307 million as portfolio growth slowed during 2003. Pre-tax income rose to $76 million, driven by a sharp reduction in non-cash charges compared with the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
BCC's customer financing portfolio grew slightly in 2003 to $12.2 billion, up from $11.8 billion at the end of 2002. New business volume of approximately $2.0 billion was offset by $1.6 billion of asset run-off and depreciation. In the fourth quarter, BCC's portfolio balance was unchanged from the $12.2 billion reported at the end of the third quarter as asset run-off and depreciation offset new business volume. The allowance for losses on finance leases and notes receivable at year-end was 4.8 percent compared to 4.6 percent at the end of the third quarter and 3.5 percent at the end of 2002. Leverage, as measured by the ratio of debt-to-equity, dropped sharply to 4.7-to-1, down from 5.2-to-1 at the end of the third quarter and 5.7-to-1 at the end of 2002.
 
At year end, approximately 80 percent of BCC's portfolio was related to Boeing products and services (primarily commercial aircraft), up slightly from the end of the third quarter. On January 15, 2004, BCC announced it is assessing strategic options with regard to the future of its Commercial Financing unit.
 
"Other" Segment
 
The "Other" segment consists chiefly of the Connexion by Boeing
SM
, Air Traffic Management, and Boeing Technology units, as well as certain results related to the consolidation of all business units. For 2003, losses from operations were $449 million up slightly from 2002.
Connexion by Boeing
SM
continues to prepare for launch of commercial service on Lufthansa in March 2004, while Air Traffic Management builds support for a modernized global air traffic management system. During the fourth quarter, Connexion by Boeing signed initial service agreements with Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways for 10 aircraft each bringing the total number of aircraft under contract for its service to 119.
 
Pension Update
 
The Company measures its pension plans using a September 30 year end for financial accounting purposes. For the plan year ending September 30, 2003, investment returns were 17 percent reflecting strong market and plan performance. However, during 2003 interest rates continued to decline. As a result, the Company lowered its discount rate, which is based on interest rates as of September 30, from 6.50 percent to 6.00 percent resulting in a higher estimated actuarial pension liability. In addition, the Company lowered its expected return on plan assets, which reflects expected performance over the long term, from 9.00 percent in 2003 to 8.75 percent in 2004.
 
Due to these adjustments, the Company decreased its other comprehensive income equity balance by $0.2 billion at the end of 2003 to reflect the additional minimum liability under its pension plans. This after-tax equity charge did not impact cash or earnings and could reverse in future periods should interest rates increase, plan returns remain strong, or The Company makes additional contributions.
 
During 2003, the Company recognized $147 million in earnings from operations from its pension plans compared with $526 million in 2002. In 2004, the Company expects pension expense to reduce earnings from operations by between $350 million and $400 million. In 2005, the pension impact on earnings will depend on market conditions and discretionary funding, but based upon current assumptions the Company estimates its non-cash pension expense will be between $600 and $700 million.
 
The Company had no significant required pension funding in 2003 and expects 2004 requirements to be approximately $100 million. However, the Company did make $1.7 billion in discretionary cash contributions to its plans in 2003 and will continue to evaluate additional discretionary funding in 2004. Requirements in 2005 will depend upon market performance and other factors but currently are expected to be less than $500 million. The Company's pension funding requirements are reflected in its outlook.
 
Outlook
 
Table 8 reflects the Company's current assessment of its financial outlook during the guidance period. Beginning with this release, the Company will provide an
outlook for operating cash flow in lieu of free cash flow* guidance in order to completely align the Company's guidance with GAAP.
 
 
Strength in defense and intelligence markets is expected to drive revenue and earnings growth in 2004 and 2005 offsetting challenges in the Company's commercial aviation and space markets and increasing development costs for the 7E7.
 
The airline industry environment remains mixed with trends varying between carriers and regions. A number of low-cost carriers continue to gain market share, remain profitable and are ordering new airplanes. There have been encouraging signs that the U.S. economy and global air traffic are recovering and airline interest is slowly increasing, although demand for the 717 remains low. However, the timing of a commercial airplane recovery remains uncertain. Currently, the Company expects airplane deliveries to remain roughly flat in 2004 and 2005 and begin increasing in 2006.
 
Commercial Airplanes' delivery forecast for 2004 has been revised from an estimated 275 to 290 airplanes to approximately 285 airplanes. Looking ahead, Commercial Airplanes expects deliveries in 2005 to be about the same as 2004. The delivery forecast is essentially sold out for 2004 and over 90-percent sold for 2005. Commercial Airplanes expects demand for aircraft services and spares to remain soft in 2004 due to difficult market conditions before picking up strength in 2005.
 
At the same time, the Company expects its defense and non-commercial space businesses to perform well in their growing markets. IDS anticipates continued growth and performance in its Network Systems segment, driven by captured programs such as Future Combat Systems and its current business base in missile defense, homeland security, intelligence, and DoD network-centric programs. The Aircraft and Weapon Systems and Support Systems segments are also expected to continue delivering strong results. The Company's outlook contemplates signing in 2004 the proposed contract to deliver 100 767 tankers to the U.S. Air Force.
 
The Company's 2004 revenue outlook is unchanged at +/-$52 billion. Revenue guidance for 2005 is between $55 billion and $57 billion.
 
Earnings per share guidance for 2004 remains unchanged at $1.75 to $1.95 per share. For 2005, the Company expects earnings per share to be between $1.95 and $2.20.
For 2004, operating cash flow guidance is revised from greater than $3.5 billion to $3.0 to $3.5 billion reflecting the acceleration of certain customer progress payments and advances from 2004 into 2003. The Company forecasts operating cash flow for 2005 to be greater than $4.5 billion. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2004 to be approximately $1 billion and expenditures in 2005 to be approximately $1.5 billion.
 
The Company expects research and development expenses to be between 3.25 and 3.75 percent of revenue in 2004 and between 3.5 and 4.0 percent in 2005 as spending increases on the 7E7 program.
 
Boeing's financial outlook for each of its major segments is shown in Table 9.
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
 
The following definitions are provided for non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used by the Company within this disclosure. Boeing does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently.
 
Adjusted Financial Results
 
Boeing reports adjusted earnings per share, earnings from operations, and operating margins excluding SFAS 142 goodwill charges. Management believes that because goodwill is a non-cash charge related to past acquisitions, adjusting the Company's financial results to exclude goodwill provides investors with a clearer perspective on the current underlying operating performance of the Company. Management uses earnings from operations excluding goodwill charges as an internal measure of business operating performance.
 
Adjusted Earnings per Share
 
Boeing defines adjusted earnings per share as GAAP earnings per share less SFAS 142 goodwill charges. Table 1 reconciles GAAP EPS and adjusted EPS.
 
Adjusted Earnings from Operations (or Adjusted Operating Losses)
 
Boeing defines adjusted earnings from operations as GAAP earnings from operations less SFAS 142 goodwill charges. Tables 2, 5, and 6 reconcile GAAP earnings from operations and adjusted earnings from operations.
 
Adjusted Operating Margin
 
Boeing defines adjusted operating margin as the adjusted earnings from operations (defined above) divided by revenues. Tables 2, 5, and 6 reconcile GAAP operating margins and adjusted operating margins.
 
Free Cash Flow
 
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP operating cash flow less capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment, net. GAAP operating cash flow includes inter-company cash received from the sale of aircraft by Commercial Airplanes for customers who receive financing from BCC. In 2003, the contribution to operating cash flow related to customer deliveries of Boeing airplanes financed by BCC totaled approximately $1.7 billion, compared with $2.7 billion for 2002.
 
GAAP investing cash flow includes a reduction in cash for the intercompany cash paid by BCC to Commercial Airplanes, as well as an increase in cash for amounts received from third parties, primarily customers paying amounts due on aircraft financing transactions. The majority of BCC's customer financing is funded by debt and cash flow from BCC operations.
 
Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 3 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
 
Certain statements in this release may constitute "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this release include, but are not limited to, our assessment of the markets for our products, statements discussing the growth of our business segments and statements contained in the "Outlook" section of this release. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results and future trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the timing and extent of any commercial aviation recovery and its effect on overall production, as well as the impact on production or production rates for specific commercial airplane models (including any reduction in or termination of an aircraft product, including the 717 and 767 models), the continued operation, viability and growth of major airline customers and non-airline customers (such as the U.S. Government); adverse developments in the value of collateral securing customer and other financings; the occurrence of any significant collective bargaining labor dispute; our successful execution of internal performance plans, acquisition and divestiture plans, and other cost-reduction and productivity efforts; charges from any future SFAS 142 review; an adverse development in rating agency credit ratings or assessments; the actual outcomes of certain pending sales campaigns including the 7E7 and U.S. and foreign government procurement activities, including the timing of procurement of tankers by the U.S. Department of Defense; the cyclical nature of some of our businesses; financial market changes which may impact pension plan assumptions; domestic and international competition in the defense, space and commercial areas; continued integration of acquired businesses; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; factors that could result in significant and prolonged disruption to air travel worldwide (including the status of and impacts flowing from continued warfare in Iraq and future terrorist attacks); any additional impacts from the attacks of September 11, 2001; global trade policies; worldwide political stability; domestic and international economic conditions; price escalation; the outcome of political and legal processes, including uncertainty regarding government funding of certain programs; changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government or foreign government defense and space budgets; termination of government or commercial contracts due to unilateral government or customer action, or failure to perform; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; legal proceedings, including U.S. Government proceedings and investigations and commercial litigation related to the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle Program and the hiring by the Company of a former government employee; and other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in our SEC filings, including, without limitation, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, and Form 10-Q for the periods ending March 31, 2003, June 30, 2003, and September 30, 2003.
 
 
Contact:
 
Investor Relations: Dave Dohnalek or Bob Kurtz (312) 544-2140
Communications:   John Dern or Anne Eisele (312) 544-2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


