FILE:BA/BA-8K-20041216095140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On December 12, 2004, the Compensation Committee of The Boeing Company (the "Company") approved amendments to the 1999 Bonus and Retention Award Plan (the "Plan") as follows: (1) changing the name of the Plan to the 2004 Variable Compensation Plan; (2) broadening the scope of the Plan to include sales incentives/commission programs and variable pay programs for certain union-represented employees; (3) requiring approval of payouts by the head of the applicable business unit; (4) eliminating maximum target award and excepting sales incentive/commission programs from the maximum payout of 200% of target award; (5) allowing for the adjustment of goals to account for extraordinary events/changes in business conditions; and (6) raising the maximum aggregate annual awards for each program created under the Plan to $25 million.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Not applicable
 
(b) Not applicable
 
(c) Exhibits
 
10.1    2004 Variable Compensation Plan
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
Examples of types of compensation and programs to be permitted under this Plan are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examples include, but are not limited to, signing bonuses, retention incentive arrangements, completion bonuses and similar types of compensation.
 
 
1
Examples include, but are not limited to, incentive plans tied to unique business requirements, such as acquired plans, commission plans, and incentive plans for collective bargaining units.
 
 
 
In addition, the head of the relevant business unit (Vice President level or above) must also adopt the program. If the program is established to cover employees of a subsidiary of the Company, then the board of directors or similar governing body of the subsidiary (or its delegate) must adopt the program, in place of the head of the business unit.
 
 
 
 
In addition, the head of the relevant business unit (Vice President level or above) must also approve the goals and related potential awards established for a performance period prior to the beginning of the performance period. If the program is established to cover employees of a subsidiary of the Company, then the board of directors or similar governing body of the subsidiary (or its delegate) must adopt the program, in place of the business unit head.
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
4


