FILE:BA/BA-8K-20051110171224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 4, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company ("Boeing" or the "Company") approved changes to the Company's executive compensation program that generally will be implemented starting in 2006. These changes, which are described briefly in this report,are being made to increase our executives' focus on leadership, performance and business results. At the same time, these changes are designed to help ensure that the program continues to be competitive in the market and continues to align executives' interests with those of our shareholders, while reducing some of the program's complexity.
 
Annual Incentive Award Program
 
The Committee has adopted a change to the Company's annual incentive award program to provide that beginning with the 2006 performance year (for awards payable in 2007), any awards that may be earned for the performance year will be paid entirely in cash, instead of the current mix of cash and Boeing Stock Units.
 
Long-Term Incentive Awards Program
 
The Committee has adopted changes to the Company's long-term incentive awards program for 2006. The program will consist of a combination of awards  performance awards and stock options  that will replace the current performance share program and career share program. The Committee has the discretion to determine the grant mix of performance awards and stock options on an annual basis. Performance awards will be based on economic profit over three-year rolling performance periods with a payout opportunity of up to 200% of the target award with the intent to pay awards in stock. Specific target award opportunities will be determined by the Committee. The stock options will vest over three years (one-third each year) and have a ten-year term. Stock option grant guidelines will be determined by the Committee.
 
Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company
 
The Committee has adopted the following amendments to the Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees of the Company (the "DCP"), effective as of January 1, 2006 (or as of the earlier or later dates specified in the amendments).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participants may make a separate election with respect to each previous annual Performance Share deferral election. A participant who does not make an affirmative election will be deemed to have elected option (b)(i) above.
 
 
 
 
Participants may make a separate election with respect to each previous annual Performance Share deferral election. A participant who does not make an affirmative election will be deemed to have elected option (c)(i) above.
 
The foregoing summary of the amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amendments to the DCP, a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: November 10, 2005
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
RESOLVED, that pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan and resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 27, 1998, delegating powers of amendment to this Committee, the Plan is hereby amended substantially as follows, effective as of January 1, 2006 (or as of such earlier or later dates specified herein):
 
1. By inserting the following paragraph after the second paragraph of Section 3 of the Plan:
 
"The annual enrollment deadline under this Section shall be extended from December 1, 2005 to December 15, 2005, with respect to elections otherwise due by December 1, 2005."
 
2. By adding the following paragraph to Section 4 of the Plan:
 
"Effective with respect to amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2006, (including amounts for which deferral elections are made prior to January 1, 2006) the Company will no longer provide any matching contribution under this Section 4 on any contributions deferred into a Stock Unit account; provided that in the case of deferrals that were the subject of an election to defer into a Stock Unit account made prior to January 1, 2005, the Company will continue to match such deferrals of Boeing Stock Units and Performance Share Awards that are not yet vested (upon vesting) and such deferrals of 2005 Annual Incentive Awards to be paid in 2006."
 
3. By adding the following paragraphs to the end of Section 5 of the Plan:
 
"Effective in May 2006, in addition to the Interest Credit and Stock Unit methods of allocating earnings on deferred amounts, a Participant may choose to diversify most of the Participant's deferrals by electing that the Participant's account be credited (or charged) with the expenses, income, gains and losses on investment funds similar to those offered under The Boeing Company Voluntary Investment Plan ("VIP") as designated by the Committee from time to time, pursuant to an election by the Participant to have the Participant's account credited as though the Participant had elected to invest in such funds in such increments as the Participant shall direct in accordance with rules to be established by the Committee or its delegates; provided that the Committee may disregard such elections in its discretion.
 
Deferrals eligible for diversification include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Shares that are unvested as of December 31, 2005, and deferred into the Stock Unit account shall not be eligible for diversification, even upon vesting. Matching contributions (except as described in (f) above) and LTIP (long-term incentive) awards also shall not be eligible for diversification."
 
4. By adding the following sentence to the end of the paragraph in Section 5 of the Plan titled "":
Special Election for Terminating Employees
 
"Effective as of January 1, 2006, the special one-time election for terminating employees under this Section 5 of the Plan shall no longer be available, and no such election received after December 31, 2005 will be effective."
 
5. By adding the following sentences after the fourth paragraph of Section 6 of the Plan:
 
"Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective for participants who terminate employment on or after January 1, 2006, a Participant may make a separate election as to the timing and form of distribution of (i) the Participant's Company matching contributions and (ii) the balance of the Participant's Plan accounts, and all matching contributions paid from such Participants' accounts shall be paid in whole shares of the Company's common stock. No fractional shares shall be distributed and any account balance remaining after a stock distribution shall be paid in cash or applied to federal withholding."
 
6. By adding the following section as new Section 6A to the Plan:
 
"6A. . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, deferrals of long-term incentive awards shall be further subject to the following:
Special Rules for Deferrals of Long-Term Incentive Awards
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participants may make a separate election under (b)(i), (ii), or (iii) above with respect to each previous annual Performance Share deferral election. A Participant who does not make an affirmative election will be deemed to have elected option (b)(i) above.
 
 
 
 
Participants may make a separate election under (c)(i) or (ii) above with respect to each previous annual Performance Share deferral election. A Participant who does not make an affirmative election will be deemed to have elected option (c)(i) above."
 


