FILE:BA/BA-8K-20060627165315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On June 26, 2006, The Boeing Company ("Boeing") issued a press release in which Boeing announced that it was accelerating an evaluation of Connexion by Boeing. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Boeing Accelerates Evaluation of Connexion by Boeing Business
 Boeing will be taking a series of near-term actions as the company accelerates the evaluation of options for the future of its Connexion by Boeing high-speed broadband communications business.
CHICAGO, June 26, 2006
Boeing has pursued the business vigorously, developing technology that has worked well and evolved into a useful product. However, the market for the service has not developed satisfactorily. Therefore, the company will be working in conjunction with customers to thoroughly evaluate the Connexion marketplace and business model to determine next steps.
Meetings are being scheduled with customers across all Connexion business channelsincluding airline, defense, maritime, corporate aircraft and general aviationto assess the current state of the market and develop plans that address market conditions. In the meantime, Boeing will limit further commercial expansion of the service.
The full extent of possible changes to the business model associated with this evaluation processincluding a sale, partnering arrangement or termination of servicewon't be decided until meetings with customers have taken place. Any financial impact from the company's decisions will be disclosed at the appropriate time.
###
Contact Info:
John Dern
312-544-2002


