FILE:BA/BA-8K-20060302164319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On February 26, 2006, the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee, elected William M. Daley, Chairman of Midwest Region for JPMorgan Chase & Co., as a new director. Mr. Daley will be proposed to shareholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders for election as a director. Mr. Daley will serve on the Finance Committee. There was no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Daley and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Daley was selected as a director and there are no related party transactions between Mr. Daley and the Company. A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Daley is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, a director of the Company since 2000, informed the Board of Directors on February 27, 2006, that he will not stand for re-election when his term expires at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. General Shalikashvili is retired chairman of the U.S. Department of Defense Joint Chiefs of Staff and former Commander-in-Chief of all U.S. forces in Europe. No disagreement with the Company caused in whole or in part Gen. Shalikashvili's decision not to stand for re-election. He served on the Board's Audit and Finance Committees, and chaired its Special Programs Committee. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Gen. Shalikashvili's decision is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On February 26, 2006, the Board of Directors amended and restated the Company's By-Laws by increasing the number of directors from ten to eleven.
 
On February 27, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company approved and adopted amendments to Article II, Sections 1 and 10 of the Company's By-Laws to eliminate the Company's classified Board. Prior to the By-Law amendments, Article II, Section 1 of the Company's By-Laws provided for three classes of directors, with each director serving a three-year term. The amendment to Section 10 was a conforming amendment pursuant to the declassification of the Board.
 
Pursuant to the amendment, the entire Board of Directors will now be elected each year for a one year term. The term of all current directors will continue until the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is scheduled to be held on Monday, May 1. Each director elected at such meeting will have a one-year term ending at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
 
The foregoing summary of the By-Law amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amendments to the By-Laws, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3(ii) and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: March 2, 2006
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 3(ii)
 
 
 
Article II, Section 1 of the By-Laws is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"SECTION 1. Number and Term of Office.
The number of directors shall be eleven, but the number may be increased, or decreased to not less than three, from time to time, either by the directors by adoption of a resolution to such effect or by the stockholders by amendment of the By-Laws in accordance with Article VIII hereof. Until the annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to be held in 2006, the directors shall be divided into three classes, each of which shall be composed as nearly as possible of one-third of the directors. Until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2006, each director shall serve for the term to which the director was elected, and until a successor shall have been elected and qualified or until the director's prior death, resignation, or removal. The terms of all directors in office immediately prior to the opening of the polls for the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation shall expire at the time of the opening of the polls for the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, each director shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal."
 
 
Article II, Section 10 of the By-Laws is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"SECTION 10. Removal of Directors.
Until the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, any director may be removed solely for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, at a meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose; and the vacancy on the Board caused by any such removal may be filled by the stockholders at such meeting or at any subsequent meeting. All directors elected at and after the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be removed with or without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, at a meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose; and the vacancy on the Board caused by any such removal may be filled by the stockholders at such meeting or at any subsequent meeting."

Exhibit 99.1
JPMorgan Chase's Daley Elected to Boeing Board of Directors
 The Boeing Company's [NYSE: BA] board of directors has elected William M. Daley, chairman of the Midwest region for JPMorgan Chase & Co., as a new board member effective immediately. Daley will serve on the board's finance committee.
CHICAGO, Feb. 28, 2006
Daley, 57, joined JPMorgan Chase in May 2004 from SBC Communications Inc., where he had been president. From 1997-2000 he was Secretary of Commerce in the Clinton administration and also served as Special Counsel to the President advising on trade matters.
"Bill Daley brings a wide range of experience with respect to business, finance and government," said Jim McNerney, Boeing chairman, president and CEO. "He has a proven record of leadership and will bring to the board valuable perspective in many important areas."
The Boeing board stands at 11 members. All qualify as independent, outside directors, with the exception of Chairman and CEO McNerney.
###
Contact Info:
John Dern
312-544-2002

Exhibit 99.2
Boeing Director Shalikashvili Announces Retirement from Board
 Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, a Boeing director since 2000, has informed the Boeing board of directors that he will not stand for re-election when his term expires later this year.
CHICAGO, Feb. 28, 2006
Shalikashvili, 69, cited other business commitments and health reasons in his decision, said Boeing Chairman, President and CEO Jim McNerney. "Shali has a record of service and accomplishment that is truly distinguished, and serving alongside him on the Boeing board has been a privilege," McNerney said. "He brought to Boeing great personal and professional strengthscommon sense and an intuitive feel for what is right; a deep concern for people and their welfare; and a broad, deep understanding of global affairs. Our people and our business are better for having had the benefit of his service."
Shalikashvili is retired chairman of the U.S. Department of Defense Joint Chiefs of Staff and former commander-in-chief of all U.S. forces in Europe. He served on the board's audit and finance committees, and chaired its special programs committee.
###
Contact Info:
John Dern
312-544-2002


