FILE:BA/BA-8K-20060303171301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 27, 2006, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Boeing Company (the "Company") approved stock option grants and cash-based performance awards for certain executive officers under the Company's long-term incentive program. The performance awards pay out based on the achievement of long-term financial goals based on economic performance at the end of a three-year performance period. Individual target awards are based on a multiple of base salary, which is then converted into a number of units. Each unit has an initial value of $100. The amount payable at the end of the three-year performance period may be anywhere from $0 to $200 per unit, depending on the Company's performance against plan for the period ending on December 31, 2008. As a result, final awards may range from 0% to 200% of an individual's target. Payment will be made (at the discretion of the Committee) in the form of cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock. The stock options have an exercise price of $74.45, equal to the of Boeing stock on the February 27, 2006 grant date, vest annually over a three-year period and expire ten years after the date of grant. The for a single trading day is the mean of the high and low per share trading prices for the Company's stock as reported by for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions.
Fair Market Value
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
The following table sets forth the performance awards and stock options granted on February 27, 2006 for the Company's named executive officers (as defined in Regulation S-K Item 402(a)(3)).
 
The Company intends to provide additional information regarding this and other compensation for the named executive officers in the definitive proxy statement for its 2006 annual meeting of shareholders, which is expected to be filed with the SEC later in March 2006.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 3, 2006


