FILE:BA/BA-8K-20070131092611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
(a) On January 31, 2007, The Boeing Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Not applicable
 
(b) Not applicable
 
(c) Not applicable
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release of The Boeing Company dated January 31, 2007, reporting Boeing's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Fourth-Quarter EPS Doubles; Revenue up 26%; 2007 EPS Outlook Raised
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] fourth quarter net earnings more than doubled to $989 million, or $1.29 per share, from $460 million, or $0.58 per share, a year ago (Table 1). Adjusted earnings per share*, removing effects of tax benefits and discontinued businesses, rose 57 percent to $1.16 per share.
CHICAGO, Jan. 31, 2007
Boeing boosted its 2007 earnings per share guidance to between $4.55 and $4.75, and set its 2008 guidance at between $5.55 and $5.75, reflecting expected strong revenue growth and expanding margins across its businesses. The company's 2007 R&D forecast is unchanged and R&D spending is expected to decline in 2008.
 
"2006 was a very good year for Boeing. We achieved new records in revenue, cash flow and backlog, and overcame some meaningful challenges by focusing on improving productivity and meeting our commitments," said Boeing Chairman, President and Chief Executive Jim McNerney. "This focus on performance gives us the confidence to set high expectations for 2007 and 2008."
Boeing's fourth-quarter revenue rose 26 percent to $17.5 billion on double-digit growth in its Commercial Airplanes and Integrated Defense Systems businesses. The 57 percent increase in fourth-quarter adjusted EPS* was due to strong business performance, partially offset by an additional charge on the Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) program. Operating cash flow for the quarter was $2.4 billion driven by strong earnings growth and a large volume of commercial airplane orders (Table 2).
For 2006, the company's reported earnings totaled $2.85 per share, down from $3.20, while revenue rose 15 percent to $61.5 billion. Adjusted EPS* for the year grew 51 percent to $3.62 per share. Record operating cash flow of $7.5 billion provided outstanding liquidity to the company, while free cash flow* increased to $5.8 billion.
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
Reflecting a second consecutive year of record commercial airplane orders, Boeing's backlog at year-end also reached a record level. The backlog rose to $250 billion, up 22 percent for the year.
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $9.3 billion at year end, up from $8.2 billion at the end of the third quarter (Table 3). Principal uses of cash during the quarter included $444 million for share repurchases, retirement of $583 million of maturing debt, and planned investment increases in Boeing's core businesses.
The company spent $2.0 billion repurchasing 25.0 million shares during the year. This leaves $2.4 billion remaining available under the current repurchase authorization. During 2006, the company also contributed $526 million to its pension plans and retired approximately $1 billion of maturing debt.
 
In December, Boeing's board of directors increased the quarterly dividend by 17 percent to $0.35 per share, or $1.40 annually, based on the company's strong operating performance and outlook, excellent cash generation and commitment to delivering value to shareholders.
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Boeing Commercial Airplanes (BCA) fourth-quarter revenues increased 37 percent to $7.6 billion driven by a 41 percent increase in airplane deliveries and higher services revenue (Table 4). BCA operating earnings doubled to $665 million. Margins expanded to 8.7 percent due to higher operating leverage and productivity improvements, partially offset by planned R&D spending increases and the absence of supplier development cost-sharing payments.
For the year, BCA deliveries rose 37 percent to 398 airplanes and revenue rose 33 percent to $28.5 billion. Operating earnings grew 91 percent to $2.7 billion as margins reached 9.6 percent.
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
Contractual backlog rose to a record $174 billion, increasing 40 percent during the year to more than six times current annual BCA revenues. BCA booked 320 gross orders during the quarter and a record 1,050 during the year. Net orders for 2006 were a
 
record 1,044 airplanes. For the second consecutive year, the 737 program achieved a record tally, bringing in 729 net orders. Boeing twin-aisle airplanes had another strong order year, with the 747 program achieving its highest order total since 1990.
The 787 Dreamliner program has won 452 firm orders from 36 customers since program launch in 2004. Important milestones were achieved during the fourth quarter, including validation of the manufacturing plan which culminated in a "virtual rollout" in December. The program continues to address pressures with respect to weight and supplier implementation. Flight testing of the Dreamliner begins this year, with entry into service scheduled for May 2008. Boeing continues to expect the 787 will be delivered on time and in accord with its contractual obligations.
Integrated Defense Systems
Boeing Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) revenues increased 18 percent during the quarter to a record $9.7 billion on higher volume across all segments (Table 5). Operating margins were 10.6 percent driven by strong execution and productivity improvements, offset by revised cost estimates on the AEW&C program totaling $274 million which reduced fourth-quarter IDS operating margins by 2.8 points.
IDS revenues grew 4 percent in 2006 to a record $32.4 billion driven by growth in Precision Engagement & Mobility Systems and Support Systems. Operating margins were 9.3 percent due to strong performance across IDS's balanced portfolio of programs, after a 2.4 point reduction for AEW&C. In 2005, IDS operating margins were 12.6 percent, including a 1.9 point benefit from gains on divestitures.
Table 5. Integrated Defense Systems Operating Results
 
 
Precision Engagement & Mobility Systems revenue grew 15 percent to $4.3 billion for the quarter on higher deliveries and volume on the F-15 and Chinook programs. Overall program performance was strong, yet operating margins were 6.9 percent for the quarter due to the charge mentioned above, which reduced PE&MS operating margins by 6.3 points.
Network & Space Systems achieved significant milestones on several key development programs including Future Combat Systems (FCS), Family of Beyond-line-of-sight Terminals (FAB-T), Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD), Airborne Laser and proprietary programs. The company also completed the United Launch Alliance joint venture during the quarter. Fourth-quarter revenues increased 19 percent to $3.4 billion driven in part by a new Delta IV launch capability services contract. Operating margins increased to 13.7 percent in the quarter driven by strong earnings on FCS and Delta IV, further boosted by a post-closing adjustment on the divestiture of Electron Dynamic Devices, Inc.
Support Systems again generated strong profits on its broad portfolio of services and logistics programs. Revenues for the quarter increased 22 percent to $1.9 billion while operating earnings increased 16 percent to $262 million resulting in 13.5 percent operating margins. Results were driven by higher volume on integrated logistics programs; international support programs; and maintenance, modification and upgrade programs such as AC-130 and KC-10.
IDS' backlog at quarter-end increased to $75.7 billion. For the year, backlog declined 6 percent as progress continued on large multi-year contracts. Contractual backlog grew 16 percent during the year to $42.3 billion while unobligated backlog declined to $33.4 billion.
Boeing Capital Corporation
Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC) continued to deliver strong financial performance while reducing portfolio risk (Table 6). For the quarter, BCC delivered pre-tax earnings of $37 million driven by continued strong financing portfolio performance and aircraft finance restructurings. BCC's portfolio balance at the end of the fourth quarter was $8.0 billion, down from $8.2 billion at the end of the third quarter and $9.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005 on normal portfolio run-off, asset sales and
 
depreciation. Despite the smaller portfolio size, revenues for the fourth quarter increased slightly to $241 million due to aircraft finance restructurings. For the year, BCC revenues grew 6 percent to $1.0 billion, and pre-tax income increased 25 percent to a record $291 million.
BCC contributed $60 million in cash dividends to the company during the quarter and $344 million in cash for the year. BCC recorded leverage of 5.0-to-1, as measured by the ratio of debt-to-equity.
Table 6. Boeing Capital Corporation Operating Results
 
Additional Information
The "Other" segment consists primarily of Boeing Engineering, Operations and Technology and the Connexion business, as well as certain results related to the consolidation of all business units. As previously disclosed, the company decided to exit its Connexion business which resulted in a pre-tax charge of $40 million in the quarter, or $0.03 per share. Other segment losses from operations grew to $93 million in the fourth quarter, up from $73 million in the same period last year.
Pre-tax (non-cash) pension expense for the quarter was $221 million, down from $451 million in the same period of 2005 which included pension settlement and curtailment expenses related to the sale of our Rocketdyne operations. Unallocated share-based-plans expense was $140 million, down 23 percent from the same period of 2005 due to changes in the company's long-term compensation plans implemented at the beginning of 2006.
Boeing's pension plans are 101 percent funded on a projected benefit obligation basis, and cash contribution requirements for the pension plans are expected to be modest over the next few years. As previously disclosed, shareholders' equity was reduced by approximately $6.5 billion at the end of the year to reflect implementation of new accounting rules for pensions and other post-retirement benefits (SFAS 158).
 
Outlook
The company expects continued growth in 2007 and 2008 that reflects strong performance from its core businesses, higher commercial airplane deliveries, leveling R&D, and companywide productivity gains (Table 7).
Boeing's revenue guidance for 2007 is now between $64.5 billion and $65 billion, reflecting completion of the United Launch Alliance transaction. For 2008, the company expects revenues between $71 and $72 billion. The 2007 earnings per share guidance is being raised to between $4.55 and $4.75 per share. EPS guidance for 2008 is set at between $5.55 and $5.75 per share. Operating cash flow for 2007 is now expected to be greater than $4 billion, as portions of cash flow previously expected in 2007 accelerated into the $7.5 billion achieved in 2006. Cash flow for 2008 is expected to again exceed $7 billion.
Commercial Airplanes' 2007 delivery guidance remains 440 to 445 airplanes and is completely sold out. Revenue guidance for 2007 remains between $32.5 and $33 billion, and operating margin guidance remains at greater than 10 percent. Airplane deliveries in 2008 are expected to rise to between 515 and 520 airplanes and are essentially sold out. Commercial Airplanes' revenue in 2008 is expected to grow to between $39 billion and $40 billion accompanied by margin expansion to approximately 11 percent. The company expects airplane deliveries in 2009 to be higher than in 2008.
IDS revenue guidance for 2007 is approximately $31 billion, and now excludes approximately $1 billion of launch business revenue due to the change to equity method accounting following completion of the ULA joint venture. Operating margins are expected to expand to approximately 11 percent in 2007. For 2008, IDS expects revenue to grow to between $32 billion and $33 billion, with operating margins of approximately 11 percent.
Boeing's research and development forecast for 2007 is unchanged at between $3.2 billion and $3.4 billion. Research and development spending is expected to decline in 2008 to between $2.8 billion and $3.0 billion. Annual capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $1.6 billion in 2007 and in 2008.
 
The company's non-cash pension expense is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion for 2007 and approximately $0.9 billion for 2008. The company expects pension expense to continue to decline after the guidance period with 2009 pension expense likely to be approximately half of the 2008 level. Discretionary cash funding of Boeing's pension plans is expected to be approximately $500 million in each of 2007 and 2008, though the company will continue to evaluate making additional discretionary contributions to its pension plans.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measure. Other companies may define the measure differently. The following definitions are provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment, additions
Adjusted Earnings per Share
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as GAAP adjusted for certain significant charges or credits. Management believes adjusted earnings per share are important to understanding the company's on-going operations and provide additional insights into underlying business performance. Significant charges or credits are described in the attachments to this release which provide reconciliations between GAAP earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share.
diluted earnings per share
 
Certain statements in this report may constitute "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements in this press release include, among others, statements regarding future results as a result of our growth and productivity initiatives, our 2007 and 2008 financial outlook and the benefits of the new IDS structure. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results and future trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the continued operation, viability and growth of major airline customers and non-airline customers (such as the U.S. Government); adverse developments in the value of collateral securing customer and other financings; the occurrence of any significant collective bargaining labor dispute; our successful execution of internal performance plans including our company-wide growth and productivity initiatives, production rate increases and decreases (including any reduction in or termination of an aircraft product), availability of raw materials, acquisition and divestiture plans, and other cost-reduction and productivity efforts; charges from any future SFAS No. 142 review; ability to meet development, production and certification schedules for the 787 program; technical or quality issues in development programs (affecting schedule and cost estimates) or in the satellite industry; an adverse development in rating agency credit ratings or assessments; the actual outcomes of certain pending sales campaigns and the timely launch of the 787 program and U.S. and foreign government procurement activities, including the uncertainty associated with the procurement of tankers by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and funding of the C-17 program; the cyclical nature of some of our businesses; unanticipated financial market changes which may impact pension plan assumptions; domestic and international competition in the defense, space and commercial areas; continued integration of acquired businesses; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; significant disruption to air travel worldwide (including future terrorist attacks); global trade policies; worldwide political stability; domestic and international economic conditions; price escalation; the outcome of political and legal processes, changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government or foreign government defense and space budgets; termination of government or commercial contracts due to unilateral government or customer action or failure to perform; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; legal and investigatory proceedings; tax settlements with the IRS and various states; U.S. Air Force review of previously awarded contracts; costs associated with the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business; and other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in our SEC filings, including, without limitation, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, and September 30, 2006.
Contact:
Investor Relations: David Dohnalek or Rob Young (312) 544-2140
Communications:    Anne Eisele or Todd Blecher (312) 544-2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude certain significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding certain significant charges or credits provides additional insights into underlying business performance. Adjusted earnings per share is not a measure recognized under GAAP. The determination of significant charges or credits may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and may vary from quarter to quarter.
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude certain significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding certain significant charges or credits provides additional insights into underlying business performance. Adjusted earnings per share is not a measure recognized under GAAP. The determination of significant charges or credits may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and may vary from quarter to quarter.
 


