FILE:BA/BA-8K-20071024092134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
(a) On October 24, 2007, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter of 2007.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Not applicable
 
(b) Not applicable
 
(c) Not applicable
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated October 24, 2007, reporting Boeing's financial results for the third quarter of 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                The Boeing Company
                100 North Riverside Plaza
                Chicago, IL 60606-1596
                
www.boeing.com
Boeing Reports Third-Quarter EPS of $1.44 and Updates Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Boeing Company's [NYSE: BA] third-quarter net earnings increased to $1.1 billion, or $1.44 per share, from $694 million, or $0.89 per share, in the same period last year (Table 1). Third-quarter revenues increased 12 percent to $16.5 billion while earnings from operations rose to $1.5 billion, yielding a 9.1 percent operating margin. Excluding last year's charge of $0.22 per share in the period to exit the Connexion business, adjusted earnings per share* rose 30 percent.
CHICAGO, October 24, 2007
Boeing increased its 2007 guidance for revenue, earnings per share and cash flow due to core business performance and lower corporate costs, and now expects earnings per share this year to be between $5.05 and $5.15. The company's guidance now
 
reflects the previously disclosed revision to the 787 delivery schedule, and the 2008 EPS outlook is reaffirmed.
"Our focus on growth and productivity is driving strong financial performance across our company," said Boeing Chairman, President and CEO Jim McNerney. "With our record backlog and healthy, growing markets, the tasks at hand are to execute our programs, continue expanding our business base, and become more efficient every day."
Third-quarter operating cash flow grew to $3.3 billion, reflecting increased operating earnings, continued strong commercial airplane orders, and a decrease in working capital. Free cash flow* grew to $2.9 billion after capital expenditures (Table 2).
 
For the first nine months of the year revenues increased 11 percent to $48.9 billion and earnings per share more than doubled to $3.92 per share. The year-earlier period included charges for Connexion, a legal settlement and Airborne Early Warning and Control programs. Total company backlog as of September 30, 2007 reached a record $295 billion, up 29 percent in the last twelve months due to continued strength in commercial airplane orders and additional defense orders.
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $12.2 billion at September 30, up 16 percent from $10.5 billion at the end of the second quarter (Table 3). The company increased its share repurchases, spending $905 million for 9.1 million shares during the quarter, leaving $0.5 billion remaining under the current repurchase authorization. Consolidated debt decreased slightly on lower aircraft financing debt.
 
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Boeing Commercial Airplanes (BCA) third-quarter revenues increased 23 percent to $8.3 billion on a 9 percent increase in deliveries to 109 airplanes, as well as higher commercial aviation services revenue (Table 4). Operating earnings grew 46 percent to $945 million and operating margins expanded to 11.4 percent. Margins in the latest quarter primarily reflect higher operating leverage.
 
For the first nine months of the year, BCA revenues rose 18 percent to $24.5 billion on a 12 percent increase in airplane deliveries. Operating earnings grew 26 percent to $2.6 billion and margins expanded to 10.6 percent, driven by higher delivery volume and services sales.
BCA booked 354 gross orders during the quarter and 903 in the first nine months. Its contractual backlog rose to a record $224 billion, increasing 46 percent in the last year to more than seven times BCA's 2006 revenues.
As previously disclosed, the company recently rescheduled first flight of the 787 Dreamliner and initial deliveries. The company expects the first flight to occur around the end of the first quarter of 2008 and first delivery in late November or December of 2008. Boeing continues to address challenges associated with assembly of the first airplanes, including completion of out-of-sequence production work, software integration and parts availability. Recent important milestones for the 787 Dreamliner program include airworthiness certification of the Rolls-Royce engine and completion of the third and final crashworthiness test. The program has won 710 firm orders to date from 50 customers.
 
Integrated Defense Systems
Boeing Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) third-quarter revenues rose 3 percent to $8.0 billion on higher volume in the Network & Space Systems and Support Systems segments, which more than offset the loss of reported revenue from last year's formation of the United Launch Alliance (ULA) joint venture. Strong performance across IDS was partially offset by a $94 million impact associated with a change in market conditions for the Delta II launch program. As a result, operating earnings declined to $824 million, yielding an operating margin of 10.3 percent.
For the first nine months of the year, revenues increased 4 percent to $23.7 billion generating higher operating earnings of $2.5 billion and expanding operating margins to 10.4 percent. IDS results reflect higher volume across all segments combined with productivity improvements, partially offset by the ULA revenue exclusion.
 
Precision Engagement & Mobility Systems third-quarter revenues fell slightly to $3.4 billion due to lower volume on the F-22 program and changes in aircraft delivery mix. Operating margin of 12.0 percent was driven by contract mix and timing on tactical aircraft, rotorcraft and weapons programs.
Network & Space Systems revenues increased 6 percent to $3.0 billion on increased volume on missile defense and several satellite programs, which more than offset the expected loss of ULA-reported revenue. Based on ULA's market assessment and discussions with our customers, it became evident that the cost of unsold Delta II inventory exceeded market prices. As a result, the company has taken a charge of $94 million for Delta II inventories and our share of ULA losses. Operating margin of 5.9
 
percent in the quarter reflects the Delta II charge which was partially offset by strong performance on missile defense programs.
Support Systems generated solid growth and profitability on its broad business base during the quarter. Revenues increased 7 percent to $1.6 billion and operating margin increased to 14.7 percent. The higher revenues reflect increased volume on integrated logistics programs while the higher margins reflect improved contract mix.
IDS' backlog at quarter-end was down slightly to $70.4 billion reflecting current year deliveries and sales on multi-year contracts awarded in prior years which were nearly offset by new orders.
Boeing Capital Corporation
Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC) continued to deliver strong financial performance while reducing portfolio risk (Table 6). For the quarter, BCC reported pre-tax earnings of $61 million compared to $122 million in the same period last year which included favorable portfolio dispositions and a larger portfolio. BCC's portfolio balance at the end of the quarter was $6.8 billion, down from $8.0 billion at the beginning of the year primarily on normal portfolio run-off, customer prepayments and depreciation. BCC contributed $52 million in cash dividends to the company during the quarter and $316 million in the first nine months of the year. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio remained steady at 5.0-to-1.
 
Additional Information
The "Other" segment consists primarily of Boeing Engineering, Operations and Technology and the Connexion business (which was closed at the end of 2006), as well as certain results related to the consolidation of all business units. Other segment expense was $46 million in the third quarter, a significant improvement from $494 million of expense in the same period last year which included a $280 million charge to exit the Connexion business.
 
Unallocated share-based-plans expense was $58 million, down from $97 million in the same period of 2006 due to changes in the company's long-term compensation plans implemented last year. Pension expense for the quarter was $278 million, of which $149 million was recorded in unallocated expense, and the balance was recorded as expense at BCA and IDS. Boeing's pension plans are fully funded on a projected benefit obligation basis, and there were $40 million in cash contributions made during the quarter.
Outlook
The company's financial guidance summarized in Table 7 reflects strong performance from core businesses, higher commercial airplane deliveries, and company-wide productivity gains. The guidance also reflects the recently announced rescheduling of initial 787 deliveries, the impact of which is expected to shift associated deliveries, revenue and cash flow from 2008 to 2009.
Boeing's 2007 revenue guidance is now approximately $66 billion, up from approximately $65 billion. Revenue guidance for 2008 is now $67.5 billion to $68.5 billion, down from $71 billion to $72 billion due to the revised 787 delivery schedule. Earnings-per-share guidance for 2007 is now $5.05 to $5.15 per share, up from $4.80 to $4.95 per share. Guidance for 2008 EPS is reaffirmed at $5.55 to $5.75 per share, as productivity gains from business units and corporate are expected to offset R&D pressure and the 787 delivery shift. Operating cash flow for 2007 is now expected to be greater than $9 billion compared to prior guidance of greater than $6 billion, and cash flow guidance for 2008 is reduced to greater than $3 billion from greater than $7 billion. The change in cash flow guidance for this year and next reflects strong core business performance, higher airplane orders this year, timing of working capital changes, and the cash impact of shifting 787 deliveries from 2008 into 2009.
Commercial Airplanes expects to deliver approximately 440 airplanes this year, and is sold out. BCA revenue guidance for 2007 is unchanged at approximately $33 billion and operating margin guidance remains approximately 10.5 percent. Airplane deliveries in 2008 are sold out and are expected to be between 480 and 490, down from 515 to 520, based on the new 787 delivery schedule. Commercial Airplanes' 2008 revenue is expected to grow to between $35 billion and $36 billion, down from previous guidance of $39 billion to $40 billion, while margins are expected to expand to
 
approximately 11 percent. The company expects to deliver more airplanes in 2009 than in 2008.
IDS revenue guidance for 2007 is increased to approximately $32 billion from approximately $31 billion. Revenue guidance for 2008 is unchanged. Guidance for 2007 IDS operating margin is reduced to greater than 10 percent from approximately 11 percent due to the Delta II market assessment and contract mix. IDS margin guidance for 2008 is now approximately 10.5 percent from approximately 11 percent due to additional R&D requirements and contract mix.
Boeing's total research and development forecast for 2007 is unchanged at approximately $3.7 billion. R&D guidance for 2008 has been increased to between $3.2 billion and $3.4 billion from $2.8 billion to $3.0 billion. Approximately half of the increase in R&D is associated with IDS: for international tanker and for a customer-requested change that results in certain proposal costs being charged to R&D. The other half is primarily due to the rescheduling of the 787 program flight test and initial deliveries. Annual capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $1.7 billion in 2007 and approximately $1.8 billion in 2008, up from previous guidance due to higher expenditures to support company growth.
The company's non-cash pension expense is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion for 2007 and approximately $0.8 billion for 2008. The company expects pension expense to continue to decline after the guidance period with 2009 pension expense likely to be approximately half of the 2008 level. Discretionary funding of Boeing's pension plans is expected to be approximately $500 million per year in 2007 and 2008.
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Adjusted Earnings per Share
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as GAAP adjusted for certain significant charges or credits. Management believes adjusted earnings per share is important to understanding the company's on-going operations and provide additional insights into underlying business performance. Significant charges or credits are described in the attachments to this release which provide reconciliations between GAAP earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share.
diluted earnings per share
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
 
Certain statements in this report may constitute "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements in this press release include, among others, statements regarding future results as a result of our growth and productivity initiatives, our 2007 and 2008 financial outlook and the benefits of the IDS structure. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results and future trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the continued operation, viability and growth of major airline customers and non-airline customers (such as the U.S. Government); adverse developments in the value of collateral securing customer and other financings; the occurrence of any significant collective bargaining labor dispute; our successful execution of internal performance plans including our company-wide growth and productivity initiatives, production rate increases and decreases (including any reduction in or termination of an aircraft product), availability of raw materials, acquisition and divestiture plans, and other cost-reduction and productivity efforts; charges from any future SFAS No. 142 review; ability to meet development, production and certification schedules for the 787 program and the ability to meet scheduled deliveries of the 787 airplane; technical or quality issues in development programs (affecting schedule and cost estimates) or in the satellite industry; an adverse development in rating agency credit ratings or assessments; the actual outcomes of certain pending sales campaigns and U.S. and foreign government procurement activities, including the uncertainty associated with the procurement of tankers by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and funding of the C-17 program; the cyclical nature of some of our businesses; unanticipated financial market changes which may impact pension plan assumptions; domestic and international competition in the defense, space and commercial areas; continued integration of acquired businesses; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; significant disruption to air travel worldwide (including future terrorist attacks); global trade policies; worldwide political stability; domestic and international economic conditions; price escalation; the outcome of political and legal processes, changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government or foreign government defense and space budgets; termination of government or commercial contracts due to unilateral government or customer action or failure to perform; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; legal and investigatory proceedings; tax settlements with the IRS and various states; U.S. Air Force review of previously awarded contracts; costs associated with the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business; and other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in our SEC filings, including, without limitation, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007.
Contact:
Investor Relations: David Dohnalek or Rob Young (312) 544-2140
Communications: Anne Eisele or Todd Blecher (312) 544-2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude certain significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding certain significant charges or credits provides additional insights into underlying business performance. Adjusted earnings per share is not a measure recognized under GAAP. The determination of significant charges or credits may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and may vary from quarter to quarter.
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude certain significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding certain significant charges or credits provides additional insights into underlying business performance. Adjusted earnings per share is not a measure recognized under GAAP. The determination of significant charges or credits may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and may vary from quarter to quarter.
 


