FILE:BA/BA-8K-20070627161758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Effective June 21, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company ("" or the ""), upon the recommendation of the Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee, elected retired Marine Corps General James L. Jones, former Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and Commander of the United States European Command, as a new director. General Jones has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Institute for 21
Boeing
Company
st
Century Energy, an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, since March 2007. He served as the Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and Commander of the United States European Command from January 2003 to February 2007. Previously, General Jones served as the 32
nd
Commandant of the United States Marine Corps from July 1999 to January 2003. General Jones will be proposed to shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders for election as a director. General Jones will serve on the Audit Committee and the Finance Committee. There was no arrangement or understanding between General Jones and any other persons pursuant to which General Jones was selected as a director, and there are no related person transactions between General Jones and the Company.
General Jones will receive the standard compensation provided to all Boeing nonemployee directors. This compensation consists of a cash retainer fee of $75,000 per year and a grant of retainer stock units equal in number to the number of shares of Boeing stock that could be purchased with an aggregate of $130,000 per year. The Company reimburses nonemployee directors for actual travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with their services. The nonemployee director compensation program is described in further detail in the Company's proxy statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of General Jones is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Gen. Jim Jones, Former Head of U.S. and NATO Forces in Europe, Joins Boeing Board
CHICAGO, June 26, 2007  Jim McNerney, chairman, president and CEO of The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA], today announced the election of retired Marine Corps Gen. James L. Jones, 63, to the Boeing board of directors, effective immediately.
Gen. Jones, former Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and Commander of the United States European Command, currently is President and CEO of the Institute for 21
st
Century Energy, an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington, D.C. He began his association with the institute on March 1 of this year after 40 years of active duty military service.
"We are very pleased to add an individual with such outstanding leadership qualities as Gen. Jones to our board," McNerney said in making the announcement. "With his many years of service to our country and allies around the world, he has an in-depth understanding of military and global affairs. As a result of the work he is doing for the institute, he also is knowledgeable about the energy and climate change issues that are so important to the future of all of us," McNerney added.
Gen. Jones has a bachelor of science degree from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University as well as an honorary doctorate from the same university. Following graduation in 1966, he was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps, served in Vietnam, and was decorated for his performance in combat. He held numerous domestic and foreign assignments during his long military career, culminating in his assignments to lead all U.S. and NATO forces in Europe in January 2003.
The election of Gen. Jones brings the total number of members on the Boeing board to eleven.
Contact: John Dern, 312-544-2002


