FILE:BA/BA-8K-20070830170130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Effective August 28, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company (the ""), upon the recommendation of the Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee, elected Edward M. Liddy, Chairman of The Allstate Corporation (""), as a new director. Mr. Liddy has served as Allstate's Chairman since January 1999, and he also served as its Chief Executive Officer from January 1999 to December 2006, its President from January 1995 to May 2005, and its Chief Operating Officer from August 1994 to January 1999. Mr. Liddy serves on the boards of directors of 3M Company and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Company
Allstate
Mr. Liddy will be proposed to shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders for election as a director. Mr. Liddy will serve on the Compensation Committee and the Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee. There was no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Liddy and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Liddy was selected as a director, and there are no related person transactions between Mr. Liddy and the Company.
Mr. Liddy will receive the standard compensation provided to all Boeing nonemployee directors. This compensation consists of a cash retainer fee of $75,000 per year and a grant of retainer stock units equal in number to the number of shares of Boeing stock that could be purchased with an aggregate of $130,000 per year. The Company reimburses nonemployee directors for actual travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with their services. The nonemployee director compensation program is described in further detail in the Company's proxy statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release announcing the election of Mr. Liddy is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On August 28, 2007, the Board of Directors approved and adopted an amendment to Article II, Section 1 of the By-Laws of The Boeing Company to increase the number of directors from eleven to twelve. A copy of the text of the amendment to the By-Laws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 30, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
Article II, Section 1 of the By-Laws is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"SECTION 1. Number and Term of Office.
The number of directors shall be twelve, but the number may be increased, or decreased to not less than three, from time to time, either by the directors by adoption of a resolution to such effect or by the stockholders by amendment of the By Laws in accordance with Article VIII hereof. Until the annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to be held in 2006, the directors shall be divided into three classes, each of which shall be composed as nearly as possible of one third of the directors. Until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2006, each director shall serve for the term to which the director was elected, and until a successor shall have been elected and qualified or until the director's prior death, resignation, or removal. The terms of all directors in office immediately prior to the opening of the polls for the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation shall expire at the time of the opening of the polls for the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, each director shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal."

Exhibit 99.1
 
Allstate's Liddy Elected to Boeing Board of Directors
CHICAGO, August 29, 2007  Edward M. Liddy has been elected to the Boeing board of directors, effective immediately.
Liddy, 61, is current chairman of The Allstate Corporation, a position he has held since January 1999. He served as chief executive officer of Allstate from January 1999 to December 2006, president from January 1995 to May 2005, and chief operating officer from August 1994 to January 1999.
"Ed's broad experience and extensive business acumen will further strengthen the Boeing board," said Boeing Chairman, President and CEO Jim McNerney. "He is a proven corporate and community leader, and we are excited to have him as a director," he added.
Prior to joining Allstate, Liddy worked for Sears, Roebuck and Co. from April 1988 until August 1994. He served in a variety of financial and operating positions at Sears, becoming chief financial officer of the company in February 1992. He was executive vice president and a member of the board of ADT Inc. from 1986 to 1988, and prior to ADT he worked for G.D. Searle & Co., rising over the course of seven years to the position of senior vice president and CFO.
Liddy is a member of the board of directors of 3M Company and The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. He is a member of the Financial Services Forum, the Business Roundtable, and Catalyst, the leading non-profit organization for the advancement of women in business. He also is chairman of Northwestern Memorial HealthCare and serves on the boards of Northwestern University and the Museum of Science and Industry. He is the past chair of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America and remains active with that organization. He is a 1968 graduate of Catholic University and holds a master's degree in business administration from George Washington University.
Contact: Tim Neale, 312-544-2002


