FILE:BA/BA-8K-20080723090002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
(a) On July 23, 2008, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of 2008.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Not applicable
 
(b) Not applicable
 
(c) Not applicable
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated July 23, 2008, reporting Boeing's financial results for the second quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports Second-Quarter Financial Results, Reaffirms Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company's [NYSE: BA] second-quarter earnings per share decreased 14 percent to $1.16 per share, on revenue of $17.0 billion and an operating margin of 7.4 percent. Results were affected by the previously disclosed charge for the Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) program and lower profitability due to mix and timing in Commercial Airplanes, partially offset by lower centralized costs (Table 1).
CHICAGO, July 23, 2008
For the first half of 2008, revenue grew 2 percent to $33.0 billion, operating margin grew to 9.2 percent, net income rose 7 percent to $2.1 billion, and earnings per share increased 13 percent to $2.79 per share, despite the AEW&C charge. Results reflected good performance in the company's core businesses and lower unallocated costs.
Boeing reaffirmed its 2008 earnings per share guidance of between $5.70 and $5.85 as well as its 2009 earnings per share guidance of between $6.80 and $7.00.
 
"While we faced some challenges this quarter that affected our results, we remain confident in our outlook for the remainder of this year and 2009," said Chairman, President and CEO Jim McNerney. "Strong global demand for our products and services, a record backlog, and a sustained focus on productivity improvement and execution will continue to drive growth and profitability for this company."
Second-quarter operating cash flow was ($0.3) billion, reflecting a planned increase in working capital requirements, mostly inventory for 787 (Table 2). First-half operating cash flow was $1.7 billion, and free cash flow* was $0.9 billion. Total company backlog at quarter-end was $346 billion, up 6 percent year-to-date driven by commercial airplane orders.
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $10.2 billion at quarter-end, down from the end of the first quarter but essentially unchanged from the same period last year (Table 3). During the quarter, the company returned $1.2 billion to shareholders by repurchasing 11.0 million shares for $859 million and paying $300 million in dividends. Share repurchases in the first half totaled $2.1 billion for 26.6 million shares.
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Boeing Commercial Airplanes (BCA) second-quarter revenues were $8.6 billion, 2 percent below the same period last year, driven by customer and model mix and lower aircraft trading revenues, partially offset by higher delivery unit volume (Table 4). Operating earnings were $777 million versus $960 million in the year ago period due to customer and model mix, as well as timing of period expenses and infrastructure costs absorbed by the production programs due to the 787 schedule push-out announced in April.
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
For the first half, BCA revenues rose 3 percent to $16.7 billion on higher deliveries partially offset by lower aircraft trading volume and customer mix. Operating earnings grew 6 percent to $1.8 billion while margins expanded to 10.5 percent driven by higher deliveries and lower R&D, partially offset by higher period expenses, and the infrastructure cost absorption noted above.
BCA booked 187 gross orders during the quarter and 476 during the first half. Contractual backlog rose to a record $275 billion, increasing 8 percent year-to-date to nearly eight times BCA's annual revenues.
Progress on the new 787 Dreamliner continues on the revised schedule announced in April. Having completed the power-on milestone, the program is in the final stages of assembly of the first airplane in preparation for flight test. While Boeing continues to address challenges associated with assembly of the initial airplanes, the program has achieved meaningful improvements in the completeness of structure and systems installation. The company completed its acquisition of a 50 percent equity interest in Global Aeronautica which will allow Boeing to exercise greater operational control of this key 787 integration facility. The risks that are always inherent in the latter stages of new airplane program production still remain. The company expects the first flight of the 787 to occur in the fourth quarter of 2008 with first delivery in the third quarter of 2009. To date, the program has won orders for 896 airplanes from 58 customers.
 
Integrated Defense Systems
Boeing Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) reported second-quarter revenue of $7.9 billion, virtually unchanged from last year. Operating earnings were $637 million and were affected by the previously disclosed $248 million charge on the AEW&C program. This charge reduced IDS operating margins by 3.2 points to 8.0 percent.
For the first half, IDS revenue declined slightly to $15.5 billion, operating earnings declined 9 percent to $1.5 billion and operating margins declined to 9.7 percent, reduced 1.6 points by the charge.
Table 5. Integrated Defense Systems Operating Results
 
Precision Engagement & Mobility Systems, which was just renamed Boeing Military Aircraft, reported second-quarter revenues slightly lower at $3.3 billion because of fewer aircraft deliveries. Although overall production program performance was strong, the operating margins were 4.9 percent for the quarter due to the charge noted above which reduced margins by 7.5 points.
For the quarter, revenues in Network & Space Systems declined slightly to $2.8 billion on lower Proprietary volume. Operating margins of 8.5 percent were due to solid performance across the segment's broad array of programs partially offset by lower Proprietary earnings. N&SS achieved significant milestones on several key programs in the quarter including Future Combat Systems' successful completion of the Joint Expeditionary Force Experiment.
Support Systems again generated strong growth and profitability on its broad portfolio of services and logistics programs. Revenues rose 11 percent to $1.8 billion on growth in integrated logistics and aircraft modifications. Operating earnings rose 24 percent to $240 million, and the operating margin grew to 13.1 percent on solid program execution, productivity improvements and contract mix.
 
The IDS backlog at quarter-end was $71.3 billion, down from the beginning of the quarter reflecting current-period revenues that exceeded new orders. Significant new awards in the quarter included a follow-on Republic of Korea contract for F-15Ks , KC-135 Programmed Depot Maintenance and a significant Proprietary contract.
Boeing Capital Corporation
Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC) reported second-quarter pre-tax earnings of $45 million down from $70 million in the same period last year which included a larger portfolio (Table 6). In the Other segment, the company also increased aircraft financing reserves by $82 million. BCC's portfolio balance at the end of the quarter was $6.2 billion, down from $6.5 billion at the beginning of the year primarily on normal portfolio run-off and depreciation. BCC contributed $39 million in cash dividends to Boeing during the quarter and $74 million in the first half. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio remained steady at 5.0-to-1.
Table 6. Boeing Capital Corporation Operating Results
 
Additional Information
The "Other" segment consists primarily of Boeing Engineering, Operations and Technology as well as certain results related to the consolidation of all business units. Other segment expense was $135 million in the second quarter, up from $66 million in the same period last year due to the increased aircraft financing reserves noted above.
Unallocated expense was $77 million, down from $313 million last year. Share-based plans expense was $118 million lower due to acceleration of expense in the year-ago quarter. Deferred compensation expense was $73 million lower due to changes in Boeing stock price and broad stock market conditions. Unallocated pension expense was lower by $65 million.
 
Total pension expense was $216 million, down from $251 million in the same quarter last year, of which $76 million was recorded in unallocated expense and the balance was recorded as expense in the business segments.
Outlook
The financial guidance issued in April is unchanged, other than an adjustment between IDS segment margins that is referenced below. The guidance reflects expectations for strong business performance in BCA and IDS, increasing commercial airplane deliveries, decreasing investment in new airplane development, and company-wide productivity gains.
Boeing's 2008 revenue guidance is $67 billion to $68 billion. For 2009, the company expects revenues between $72 billion and $73 billion. Earnings-per-share guidance for 2008 is reaffirmed at $5.70 to $5.85 per share while EPS guidance for 2009 remains at $6.80 to $7.00 per share. For 2008 operating cash flow is expected to be greater than $2.5 billion, increasing to more than $6 billion in 2009.
Commercial Airplanes' 2008 delivery guidance remains between 475 and 480 airplanes and is sold out. BCA revenue guidance for 2008 remains $34.5 billion to $35 billion, and operating margin guidance is approximately 11.5 percent, as the mix and expense timing issues experienced in the second quarter are addressed in the second half of the year. In 2009 BCA expects to deliver between 500 and 505 commercial airplanes  including approximately 25 Dreamliners  and is essentially sold out. BCA's 2009 revenue is expected to grow to between $37 billion and $38 billion, accompanied by margins of approximately 11.5 percent. Boeing also expects to deliver more airplanes in 2010 than in 2009.
IDS revenue guidance for 2008 is $32 billion to $33 billion. Expected operating margins for IDS remain unchanged at approximately 10.5 percent, although the segment margins within IDS have been adjusted for 2008. For 2009, IDS expects revenue to grow to between $33.5 billion and $34.5 billion, with operating margins exceeding 10.5 percent.
Boeing's 2008 R&D forecast is between $3.6 billion and $3.8 billion. R&D spending in 2009 is expected to decline to between $3.1 billion and $3.3 billion. Annual capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $1.8 billion in 2008 and approximately $1.7 billion in 2009.
 
The company's non-cash pension expense is expected to be approximately $0.8 billion for 2008, falling to approximately $0.5 billion in 2009, although it may vary due to discount rates and investment returns. Discretionary cash funding of Boeing's pension plans is expected to be approximately $0.5 billion in 2008 (contributed during the first quarter) and 2009, although the company will continue to evaluate making additional discretionary contributions to its pension plans.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
Certain statements in this report may constitute "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements in this press release include, among others, statements regarding future results as a result of our growth and productivity initiatives, our 2008 and 2009 financial outlook and the benefits of the IDS structure. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results and future trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the continued operation, viability and growth of major airline customers and non-airline customers (such as the U.S. Government); adverse developments in the value of collateral securing customer and other financings; the occurrence of any significant collective bargaining labor dispute; our successful execution of internal performance plans including our company-wide growth and productivity initiatives, production rate increases and decreases (including any reduction in or termination of an aircraft product), availability of raw materials, acquisition and divestiture plans, and other cost-reduction and productivity efforts; charges from any future SFAS No. 142 review; ability to meet development, production and certification schedules for the 787 program and the ability to meet scheduled deliveries of the 787 airplane; technical or quality issues in development programs (affecting schedule and cost estimates) or in the satellite industry; an adverse development in rating agency credit ratings or assessments; the actual outcomes of certain pending sales campaigns and U.S. and foreign government procurement activities, including the uncertainty associated with the procurement of tankers by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and funding of the C-17 program; the cyclical nature of some of our businesses; unanticipated financial market changes which may impact pension plan assumptions; domestic and international competition in the defense, space and commercial areas; continued integration of acquired businesses; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; significant disruption to air travel worldwide (including future terrorist attacks); global trade policies; worldwide political stability; domestic and international economic conditions; price escalation; the outcome of political and legal processes, changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government or foreign government defense and space budgets; termination of government or commercial contracts due to unilateral government or customer action or failure to perform; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; legal and investigatory proceedings; tax settlements with the IRS and various states; U.S. Air Force review of previously awarded contracts; costs associated with the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business; and other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in our SEC filings, including, without limitation, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
Contact:
Investor Relations: Diana Sands or Rob Young (312) 544-2140
Communications: Todd Blecher (312) 544-2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


