FILE:BA/BA-8K-20080130095130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
(a) On January 30, 2008, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Not applicable
 
(b) Not applicable
 
(c) Not applicable
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated January 30, 2008, reporting Boeing's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports Record Revenues, Earnings, Cash Flow & Backlog for 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Boeing Company's [NYSE: BA] 2007 net income increased 84 percent to a record $4.1 billion, or $5.28 per share, up from $2.2 billion, or $2.85 per share, in 2006 on higher commercial airplane deliveries, strong growth in defense earnings, companywide productivity improvements, and certain charges recorded in 2006 (Table 1). Revenue rose 8 percent to a record $66.4 billion, while the operating margin expanded to 8.8 percent driven by double-digit margins in its commercial airplanes and defense businesses.
CHICAGO, January 30, 2008
Fourth-quarter revenue held at $17.5 billion while the operating margin increased to 8.7 percent driven by margin expansion in its core businesses. Operating earnings grew 32 percent, while earnings per share increased 5 percent to $1.36 per share affected by a higher effective tax rate.
 
Boeing raised its 2008 earnings per share guidance to between $5.70 and $5.85, as productivity gains are being realized ahead of earlier plans.
"Our 2007 results demonstrate the kind of quality financial performance we can achieve through our simultaneous focus on growth and productivity," said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney. "We added substantial backlog, made major efficiency gains, and executed well on our production and services programs. Despite some development program challenges, we are a strong company growing stronger, and we expect continued improvement in our financial results in 2008 and beyond."
Full-year operating cash flow grew 28 percent to a record $9.6 billion, reflecting strong operating earnings, higher commercial airplane orders, and a decrease in working capital requirements. Free cash flow* increased 35 percent to a record $7.9 billion (Table 2). Total company backlog at year-end reached a record $327 billion, up 31 percent in the last twelve months driven by commercial airplane orders and defense program wins.
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $12.1 billion at year-end, up 30 percent from the same period last year and down slightly from the end of the third quarter (Table 3). During the fourth quarter, the company increased its share repurchase authorization by $7 billion and spent $890 million for 9.4 million shares. Share repurchases for the year totaled $2.8 billion for 29.0 million shares. Also in the fourth quarter, the company increased its dividend by 14 percent. Consolidated debt decreased 5 percent as Boeing Capital Corporation repaid maturing debt.
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Boeing Commercial Airplanes (BCA) fourth-quarter revenues increased 17 percent to $8.9 billion on a 9 percent increase in deliveries, to 112 airplanes, and higher commercial aviation services revenue (Table 4). Operating earnings grew 46 percent to $973 million on favorable product mix, and operating margins expanded to 11.0 percent. Margins in the latest quarter primarily reflect higher operating leverage and expanding productivity.
 
For the full year, BCA revenues rose 17 percent to $33.4 billion on an 11 percent increase in airplane deliveries and higher services volume. Operating earnings grew 31 percent to $3.6 billion while margins expanded to 10.7 percent, driven by higher delivery volume and services sales, partially offset by increased R&D spending.
BCA booked 520 gross orders during the quarter and a record 1,423 during the year. Contractual backlog rose to a record $255 billion, increasing 46 percent in 2007 to more than seven times BCA's annual revenues.
Progress on the new 787 Dreamliner continues on the revised schedule announced earlier this month. Boeing continues to address challenges associated with assembly of the first airplanes, including start-up issues in our factory and in our extended global supply chain. The company expects the first flight to occur around the end of the second quarter of 2008 with first delivery in early 2009. The program won a record 369 787 orders in 2007, bringing total firm orders since launch to 857 airplanes from 56 customers.
 
Integrated Defense Systems
Boeing Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) expanded operating margins more than 100 basis points to 11.7 percent in the fourth-quarter on revenue of $8.4 billion. Revenues declined from the same period last year driven by timing of aircraft deliveries and the December 2006 formation of the United Launch Alliance (ULA) joint venture.
For the full year, IDS grew operating earnings by 13 percent to $3.4 billion and expanded operating margins to 10.7 percent on revenues of $32.1 billion. IDS results reflect strong execution in all segments and extensive productivity improvements. During the year, IDS won nine out of eleven significant competitions, demonstrating the value its defense products provide to customers worldwide.
Table 5. Integrated Defense Systems Operating Results
 
Precision Engagement & Mobility Systems expanded fourth-quarter operating margin to 11.0 percent on lower revenue of $3.6 billion. Margin results were driven by strong execution across aircraft production programs, including EA-18G and C-17. The change in revenues reflects lower aircraft deliveries compared to the year-ago period.
Network & Space Systems achieved significant milestones on several key programs. Operating margin expanded to 10.2 percent in the quarter driven by strong performance across the segment's broad array of programs, including Future Combat Systems and Ground-based Midcourse Defense, which captured 100 percent of award fees. Revenues fell to $2.9 billion on the removal of ULA-reported revenue.
Support Systems again generated strong profits on its broad portfolio of services and logistics programs. Operating margin grew to 15.4 percent on solid program execution and contract mix, while revenues for the quarter fell to $1.9 billion on lower volume and timing of aircraft modifications.
 
IDS' backlog at quarter-end grew to $71.7 billion reflecting new orders that exceeded current-period revenues. Significant new orders in the quarter include the Tracking & Data Relay Satellites, Singapore F-15SGs and Ares I Instrument Unit Avionics award.
Boeing Capital Corporation
Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC) reported fourth-quarter pre-tax earnings of $30 million compared to $37 million in the same period last year which included a larger portfolio (Table 6). BCC's portfolio balance at the end of the quarter was $6.5 billion, down from $8.0 billion at the beginning of the year primarily on normal portfolio run-off, customer prepayments and depreciation. BCC contributed $92 million in cash dividends to the company during the quarter and $408 million in 2007. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio remained steady at 5.0-to-1.
Table 6. Boeing Capital Corporation Operating Results
 
Additional Information
The "Other" segment consists primarily of Boeing Engineering, Operations and Technology and the Connexion business (which was exited at the end of 2006), as well as certain results related to the consolidation of all business units. Other segment expense was $165 million in the fourth quarter, up from $93 million of expense in the same period last year due to higher environmental remediation expenses.
Unallocated share-based-plans expense was $6 million, down from $140 million in the same period last year due to changes in the company's long-term compensation plans implemented in 2006. Reversal of deferred compensation expense recorded earlier in the year contributed $66 million to earnings due to a lower share price and broad stock market conditions. Pension expense for the quarter rose $80 million to $301 million, of which $141 million was recorded in unallocated expense, and the balance was recorded as expense at BCA and IDS. At year-end, Boeing's pension plans were more than fully funded at 110 percent of the projected benefit obligation.
 
Outlook
The company's financial guidance summarized in Table 7 reflects strong business performance forecasts at IDS and BCA, increasing commercial airplane deliveries, continued investment in new airplane development and company-wide productivity gains. As previously disclosed, Boeing will provide complete financial guidance for 2009 when the company issues its first-quarter 2008 earnings report in late April, which will follow the assessment of the impact of the previously announced 787 schedule changes.
Boeing's 2008 revenue guidance is now between $67 billion and $68 billion, down from between $67.5 billion and $68.5 billion due to the 787 delay. Earnings-per-share guidance for 2008 is raised to $5.70 to $5.85 per share, from $5.55 to $5.75 per share, as productivity gains are being realized ahead of earlier plans. Operating cash flow guidance for 2008 is reduced to greater than $2.5 billion reflecting the 787 schedule, from greater than $3 billion.
For 2009, the outlook for the company's defense business and in-production commercial airplane programs remains very strong. As a result, the company continues to expect strong earnings per share growth in 2009.
Commercial Airplanes now expects to deliver between 475 and 480 airplanes in 2008 and is sold out, down slightly from 480 to 490 airplanes to reflect the rescheduling of initial 787 deliveries into 2009. BCA revenue guidance for 2008 is now $34.5 billion to $35 billion, down from $35 billion to $36 billion, and operating margin guidance is increased to approximately 11.5 percent from approximately 11 percent as productivity gains are being realized ahead of earlier plans.
IDS revenue guidance for 2008 is unchanged at $32 billion to $33 billion. Guidance for 2008 IDS operating margin is unchanged at approximately 10.5 percent.
Boeing's total R&D forecast for 2008 is unchanged at between $3.2 billion and $3.4 billion, a decline of approximately 14 percent from the 2007 level. Annual capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $1.8 billion in 2008.
 
The company's non-cash pension expense is expected to be approximately $0.8 billion for 2008. Discretionary funding of Boeing's pension plans in 2008 is expected to be approximately $500 million.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Adjusted Earnings per Share
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as GAAP adjusted for certain significant charges or credits. Management believes adjusted earnings per share is important to understanding the company's on-going operations and provide additional insights into underlying business performance. Significant charges or credits are described in the attachments to this release which provide reconciliations between GAAP earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share.
diluted earnings per share
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
Certain statements in this report may constitute "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements in this press release include, among others, statements regarding future results as a result of our growth and productivity initiatives, our 2007 and 2008 financial outlook and the benefits of the IDS structure. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results and future trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the continued operation, viability and growth of major airline customers and non-airline customers (such as the U.S. Government); adverse developments in the value of collateral securing customer and other financings; the occurrence of any significant collective bargaining labor dispute; our successful execution of internal performance plans including our company-wide growth and productivity initiatives, production rate increases and decreases (including any reduction in or termination of an aircraft product), availability of raw materials, acquisition and divestiture plans, and other cost-reduction and productivity efforts; charges from any future SFAS No. 142 review; ability to meet development, production and certification schedules for the 787 program and the ability to meet scheduled deliveries of the 787 airplane; technical or quality issues in development programs (affecting schedule and cost estimates) or in the satellite industry; an adverse development in rating agency credit ratings or assessments; the actual outcomes of certain pending sales campaigns and U.S. and foreign government procurement activities, including the uncertainty associated with the procurement of tankers by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and funding of the C-17 program; the cyclical nature of some of our businesses; unanticipated financial market changes which may impact pension plan assumptions; domestic and international competition in the defense, space and commercial areas; continued integration of acquired businesses; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; significant disruption to air travel worldwide (including future terrorist attacks); global trade policies; worldwide political stability; domestic and international economic conditions; price escalation; the outcome of political and legal processes, changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government or foreign government defense and space budgets; termination of government or commercial contracts due to unilateral government or customer action or failure to perform; legal, financial and governmental risks related to international transactions; legal and investigatory proceedings; tax settlements with the IRS and various states; U.S. Air Force review of previously awarded contracts; costs associated with the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business; and other economic, political and technological risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in our SEC filings, including, without limitation, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude certain significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding certain significant charges or credits provides additional insights into underlying business performance. Adjusted earnings per share is not a measure recognized under GAAP. The determination of significant charges or credits may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and may vary from quarter to quarter.
 
 
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude certain significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding certain significant charges or credits provides additional insights into underlying business performance. Adjusted earnings per share is not a measure recognized under GAAP. The determination of significant charges or credits may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and may vary from quarter to quarter.
 
 
 


