FILE:BA/BA-8K-20090707083556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 6, 2009, BCACSC, Inc. ("Buyer"), a wholly owned subsidiary of The Boeing Company ("Boeing"), entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. ("Vought"). Under the Purchase Agreement, Vought has agreed to sell, and Buyer has agreed to purchase, the business, assets and operations of Vought's 787 business conducted at North Charleston, South Carolina (collectively, the "Business"). Buyer will assume all of the liabilities of the Business other than the liabilities that Vought has agreed to retain, which include (1) pre-closing environmental and certain tax liabilities, (2) certain liabilities for Vought employee benefit plans and other pre-closing employee-related liabilities and (3) unknown pre-closing violations of law causing losses in excess of $10 million.
The cash consideration to be paid at closing to Vought in connection with the sale of the Business and the entry into the other agreements described below is expected to be approximately $580 million, which represents the agreed-upon aggregate cash consideration less pre-closing adjustments. The final aggregate cash consideration will be subject to further adjustments post-closing related to Vought's net investment in the Business. In addition, Boeing will release Vought from its obligations to repay amounts previously advanced by Boeing and will guarantee the pre-closing obligations of Buyer and provide a limited guaranty of Buyer's post-closing indemnity of Vought.
The Purchase Agreement contains representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification customary for a transaction of this nature.
Closing of the transaction is subject to several customary closing conditions, including the requirement that the lenders under Vought's senior credit facility provide the waiver required to permit the transaction to close.
The Purchase Agreement contemplates that the parties or their affiliates will enter into the following additional agreements at closing: (1) a transition services agreement, pursuant to which Vought will provide certain transition services to Boeing; (2) an engineering services agreement, pursuant to which Vought will provide certain engineering services to Boeing; (3) an intellectual property license agreement, pursuant to which the parties will license to each other certain intellectual property; (4) a termination and mutual release agreement, pursuant to which Vought and Boeing will terminate their existing 787 supply agreement and release claims and resolve rights and obligations owed to each other under the existing 787 supply agreement, including obligations incurred or created as a result of ordinary course performance of the 787 supply agreement; and (5) a long-term supply agreement, pursuant to which Vought will act as a supplier for Boeing's 737, 777 and 787 aircraft programs.
A copy of the press release announcing the transaction is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 7, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Boeing Announces Agreement to Acquire Vought Operations in South Carolina
 Accelerates productivity and efficiency within 787 supply chain
 Bolsters Boeing capability to develop and produce large composite structures
 Vought continues relationship with Boeing on range of programs
SEATTLE, July 7, 2009  The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] announced today that it has agreed to acquire the business and operations conducted by Vought Aircraft Industries at its South Carolina facility, where Vought builds a key structure for Boeing's 787 Dreamliner airplane.
The Vought facility, located in North Charleston, performs fabrication, and assembly of structures and systems installation of 787 aft-fuselage sections, which are made primarily of composite materials. After the transaction, Vought will continue its work on many Boeing programs including other components of the 787, as well as structures and components on the 737, 747, 767, 777, C-17, and V-22 through operations located elsewhere.
"Integrating this facility and its talented employees into Boeing will strengthen the 787 program by enabling us to accelerate productivity and efficiency improvements as we move toward production ramp-up," said Scott Carson, president and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes. "In addition, it will bolster our capability to develop and produce large composite structures that will contribute to the advancement of this critical technology."
"We take great pride knowing that we have been able to satisfy the technological and physical demands of the 787 program alongside much larger companies, " said Elmer Doty, president and CEO of Vought Aircraft Industries. "However, the financial demands of this program are clearly growing beyond what a company our size can support. We are pleased that we will continue our 787 involvement at a component manufacturing level, as well as provide on-going technical capabilities that have helped make Charleston a world-class composite facility."
Through the agreement, Boeing will acquire, among other things, the facility, assets and inventory as well as assume operation of the site, and the parties will resolve all matters related to Vought's prior work on the 787 program. The cash consideration to be paid to Vought at closing is approximately $580M. In addition, Boeing will release Vought from its obligations to repay amounts previously advanced by Boeing. Separately, Boeing entered into new agreements with Vought for work packages on the 737, 777 and 787.
This transaction is anticipated to close in the third quarter following satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including consent from Vought's lenders.
Once acquired, the North Charleston facility will be managed by the 787 Program. "We look forward to welcoming the South Carolina team to Boeing and continuing our relationship with Vought to bring the most value to the 787 and our other programs," said Carson.
More Information
Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. (www.voughtaircraft.com) is one of the world's largest independent suppliers of aerostructures. Headquartered in Dallas, the company designs and manufactures major airframe structures such as wings, fuselage subassemblies, empennages, nacelles and other components for prime manufacturers of aircraft. Vought has annual sales of approximately $1.8 billion and about 6,600 employees.
Boeing is the world's leading aerospace company and the largest manufacturer of commercial jetliners and military aircraft combined. Additionally, Boeing designs and manufactures rotorcraft, electronic and defense systems, missiles, satellites, launch vehicles and advanced information and communication systems. As a major service provider to NASA, Boeing operates the Space Shuttle and International Space Station. The company also provides numerous military and commercial airline support services. Boeing has customers in more than 90 countries around the world and is one of the largest U.S. exporters in terms of sales.
Forward-Looking Information Is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty
Certain statements in this report may be "forward-looking" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," "targets," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions about future events that may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak to events only as of the date they are made and neither Boeing nor Vought undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by federal securities laws. Specific factors that could cause Boeing's and/or Vought's actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in each company's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission: the failure of conditions precedent to the closing of the transaction or the failure of the transaction to close for any other reason; the failure of the parties to experience the expected benefits of the transaction; the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally; the impact on accounts receivable, customer financing portfolios and allowance for losses of customer defaults
and changes in customer credit ratings, credit default rates and collateral values; the impact on revenues and operating results of changes to indices included in indexed price escalation clauses included in contracts with commercial airplane and defense customers; the successful execution of Boeing Commercial Airplanes and Integrated Defense Systems backlog; the effects of customers cancelling, modifying and/or rescheduling contractual orders; the timing and effects of any decisions to increase or decrease the rate of commercial airplane production; the timing and effects of decisions to complete or launch a Commercial Airplanes program at Boeing; Boeing's ability to successfully develop and timely produce the 787 and 747-8 aircraft; the ability of suppliers and, as applicable, subcontractors to successfully and timely perform their obligations; the effect of political and legal processes; changing defense priorities; and associated budget reductions by U.S. and international government customers affecting defense programs; relationship with union-represented workforce and the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements; the continuation of long-term trends in passenger and cargo traffic and revenue yields in the airline industry; the impact of volatile fuel prices and the airline industry's response; the effect of declines in aircraft valuation; the impact of airline bankruptcies; the extent to which Boeing and/or Vought are called upon to fund outstanding financing commitments or satisfy other financing requests, and the ability to satisfy those requirements; the continuation of historical costs for fleet support services; the receipt of estimated award and incentive fees on U.S. government contracts; the future demand for commercial satellites and projections of future order flow; the potential for technical or quality issues on development programs, including the Airborne Early Warning and Control program, International KC-767 Tanker, other fixed-price development programs, or commercial satellite programs, to affect schedule and cost estimates, or cause Boeing and/or Vought to incur a material charge or experience a termination for default; the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation in which either company is a party, and other contingencies; returns on pension fund assets, impacts of future interest rate changes on pension obligations and rising healthcare costs; ability to access external capital resources to fund operations; the amounts and effects of underinsured operations, including satellite launches; and the scope, nature or impact of acquisition or disposition activity and investment in any joint ventures/strategic alliances, including Boeing's Sea Launch and United Launch Alliance, and indemnifications and guarantees related thereto.
Contacts:
Jim Proulx, BCA Communications, 206-850-2102
Russ Young, BCA Communications, 425-246-6661
Lisa Quirindongo, Vought Communications, 203-430-3550
Lynne Warne, Vought Communications, 615-974-6003
More information:
http://www.boeing.com


