FILE:BA/BA-8K-20091021084706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
(a) On October 21, 2009, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter of 2009. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated October 21, 2009, reporting Boeing's financial results for the third quarter of 2009, furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports Third-Quarter Financial Results
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported a third-quarter net loss of $1.6 billion, or $2.23 per share, as revenues rose 9 percent to $16.7 billion. Current period results reflect the previously announced reclassification to research and development (R&D) of costs incurred through July for the first three 787 flight-test airplanes ($2.46 per share), spending on those planes for August and September ($0.14 per share), and the 747 charge ($0.99 per share), partially offset by solid performance in other commercial airplane programs and the company's defense business (Table 1). Last year's strike and supplier production problems reduced year-ago revenue by an estimated $2.1 billion and earnings by an estimated $0.60 per share.
CHICAGO, October 21, 2009
Revenues for the first nine months of 2009 rose 4 percent to $50.3 billion due to higher commercial deliveries and growth in the defense segment. Earnings for the first nine months declined to $0.06 per share, including the third-quarter impacts described above and a first-quarter $0.38 per share impact from reductions to future twin-aisle production rates and lower delivery price escalation forecasts in Commercial Airplanes.
 
Earnings guidance for 2009 has been adjusted to between $1.35 and $1.55 per share, from $4.70 to $5.00, to reflect the 787 and 747 impacts.
"The 787 cost reclassification and the 747 charge for increased costs and difficult market conditions clearly overshadowed what continues to be otherwise solid performance across our commercial production programs and defense business," said Boeing Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney. "We look forward to getting the 787 and 747-8 in the air soon and moving forward with flight test and certification for these two important programs."
Boeing's quarterly operating cash flow was $1.2 billion, which includes higher cash receipts than the year-ago period partially offset by continued investment in development programs (Table 2). For the first nine months of 2009, operating cash flow was $2.4 billion. Free cash flow* was $1.0 billion in the quarter and $1.4 billion year-to-date.
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $6.6 billion at September 30, up 31 percent from the end of the second quarter. The cash position was improved by the issuance of $1.95 billion in debt partially offset by investing cash flows of $1.0 billion for the purchase of 787 facilities in South Carolina and payment of Sea Launch guarantees (Table 3). The company did not acquire any of its shares in the quarter.
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
 
Total company backlog at quarter-end was $320 billion, down 2 percent in the quarter, as backlog for both Commercial Airplanes and Integrated Defense Systems declined during the period.
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Boeing Commercial Airplanes (BCA) third-quarter revenues increased 13 percent to $7.9 billion on higher deliveries partially offset by lower services volume, while last year's revenues were affected by a labor strike and supplier production problems. The current period operating loss of $2.8 billion reflects the previous 787 and 747 announcements mentioned above. R&D expense includes the $2.5 billion reclassification of costs incurred through July on the first three 787 flight test airplanes and $138 million of spending on those airplanes in August and September. The 747 forward-loss of $1.0 billion is due to increased production costs and difficult market conditions (Table 4).
For the first nine months of 2009, revenues rose to $24.9 billion on increased airplane deliveries, partially offset by lower volume in services. Operating earnings fell to a loss of $1.6 billion driven by the 787 and 747 impacts.
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
BCA booked 96 gross orders during the quarter while 17 others were removed from its order book. Contractual backlog was $254 billion, more than seven times BCA's expected 2009 revenues.
The 787 program has begun the previously announced reinforcement to an area within the side-of-body joint. First flight of the airplane remains on track to occur by the end of 2009, with first delivery scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2010. The company also recently completed its acquisition of the 787 production facility in South Carolina from Vought. Total firm orders are now 840 airplanes from 55 customers, including the previously disclosed ten-unit cancellation that occurred after quarter-end.
 
Integrated Defense Systems
Boeing Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) third-quarter revenues rose 3 percent to $8.7 billion on increased military aircraft deliveries and higher volume in services. Operating margins were 10.1 percent reflecting strong performance in Boeing Military Aircraft and Network & Space Systems (Table 5).
For the first nine months of 2009, IDS revenues increased by 5 percent to $25.1 billion on growth in Military Aircraft and Global Services segments as operating margins were 9.8 percent, increasing earnings 5 percent to $2.5 billion.
Table 5. Integrated Defense Systems Operating Results
 
Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) third-quarter revenue rose 7 percent to $4.0 billion and operating margin expanded to 12.3 percent, reflecting improved delivery mix and strong execution across its programs. During the quarter, BMA delivered 34 aircraft, the third P-8A achieved its first flight, the P-8 India contract was finalized, and the Chinook program received a 15-aircraft contract from Canada.
Network & Space Systems third-quarter revenues were $2.7 billion primarily driven by lower volume on intelligence and security systems, missile defense, and combat systems. Operating margin was 9.3 percent reflecting strong performance across the segment's array of programs partially offset by a less favorable contract mix. During the quarter, key flight milestones were achieved on Directed Energy programs, and the company was awarded contracts to provide four of its new 702B satellite to Intelsat.
Global Services & Support (GS&S) revenues increased 15 percent on higher volume across its broad portfolio of services and logistics products. During the quarter, GS&S operating margins were 7.1 percent driven by a contract adjustment and less favorable contract mix. In this segment, the company was awarded contracts for A-10 modernization as part of a $1.6 billion lifecycle program support contract and a UK Chinook modernization contract.
 
IDS' backlog is $65.8 billion, nearly two times expected 2009 revenues. The reduction in backlog was primarily due to termination of the manned ground vehicle portion of the Future Combat Systems contract due to changing US defense priorities.
Boeing Capital Corporation
Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC) reported third-quarter pre-tax earnings of $39 million compared to $37 million in the same period last year (Table 6). During the quarter, BCC's portfolio balance declined slightly to $6.1 billion, down from $6.3 billion at the end of the second quarter, on normal portfolio run-off through customer payments and depreciation, partially offset by $153 million in new aircraft financings and other volume. BCC contributed $48 million in cash dividends to the company during the quarter. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio was unchanged at 5.0-to-1.
Table 6. Boeing Capital Corporation Operating Results
 
Additional Information
The "Other" segment consists primarily of Boeing Engineering, Operations and Technology, as well as certain results related to the financial consolidation of all business units. Other segment expense was $36 million in the third quarter.
Total pension expense for the quarter was $230 million, as compared to $176 million in the same period last year. A total of $254 million was recognized in the operating segments in the quarter (up from $125 million in the same period last year), partially offset by a $24 million contribution to earnings in unallocated items.
Unallocated expense was $202 million driven by higher deferred compensation expense partially offset by lower unallocated pension expense, up from $90 million in the same quarter last year which included a more favorable insurance adjustment.
 
Interest expense for the quarter was $92 million, up from $49 million in the same period last year due to additional debt issued in 2009. Other income (expense) decreased $59 million driven by lower interest earned on cash balances.
Outlook
The 2009 financial guidance is updated to include the previously disclosed 787 cost reclassification and 747 charge (Table 7).
Boeing's 2009 revenue guidance is reaffirmed at $68 billion to $69 billion. Earnings-per-share guidance for 2009 has been reduced to between $1.35 and $1.55 per share from $4.70 to $5.00 per share for the 787 cost reclassification and 747 charge. Operating cash flow guidance is reaffirmed at greater than $2.5 billion, including discretionary pension contributions of approximately $0.5 billion and an assumption of $0.8 billion for new commercial airplane financings. The company will issue financial guidance for 2010 with its fourth-quarter 2009 results.
Commercial Airplanes' 2009 delivery guidance remains at between 480 and 485 airplanes and is sold out. BCA's 2009 revenue is unchanged at between $34 billion and $35 billion, and operating margin is expected to be between (3) percent and (2.5) percent due to the previously discussed 787 and 747 impacts.
IDS guidance for 2009 remains unchanged with revenue between $33 billion and $34 billion and operating margins of approximately 10 percent.
Boeing Capital Corporation now expects that the aircraft finance portfolio will be stable as the amount of new aircraft financing in 2009 will approximate normal portfolio runoff due to customer payments and depreciation.
Boeing's 2009 R&D forecast is between $6.6 billion and $6.8 billion, up from $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion, driven by the 787 cost reclassification, an operating model adjustment to better balance BCA R&D efforts going forward, and higher IDS R&D. Capital expenditures for 2009 are expected to be approximately $1.3 billion, down from approximately $1.4 billion. The company's non-cash pension expense is expected to be approximately $0.9 billion in 2009. The third-quarter tax benefit related to the 787 cost reclassification and 747 charge was 30.6 percent, and the full-year tax benefit for both impacts is expected to be approximately 37 percent.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
Certain statements in this report may be "forward-looking" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions about future events that may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak to events only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by federal securities laws. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission: the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally; the impact on our accounts receivable, customer financing portfolios and allowance for losses of customer defaults and changes in customer credit ratings, credit default rates and collateral values; the impact on our revenues and operating results of changes to indices included in indexed price escalation clauses included in our contracts with commercial airplane and defense customers; the successful execution of our Commercial Airplanes and Integrated Defense Systems backlog; the effects of customers canceling, modifying and/or rescheduling contractual orders and advance payments; the timing and effects of any decisions to increase or decrease the rate of commercial airplane production; the timing and effects of decisions to complete or launch a Commercial Airplanes program; the ability to successfully develop and timely produce the 787 and 747-8 aircraft; the ability of our suppliers and, as applicable, subcontractors to successfully and timely perform their obligations; the effect on our revenues of political and legal processes, changing defense priorities, and associated budget reductions by U.S. and international government customers affecting Boeing defense programs; our relationship with our union-represented workforce and the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements; the impact of volatile fuel prices and the airline industry's response; the effect of trade and globalization on long-term growth in passenger and cargo traffic; the effect of world trade and credit availability on air cargo traffic; the effect of declines in aircraft valuations; the impact of airline traffic volumes and revenue yields on near-term global airline profitability; the impact on our revenues or operating results of airline bankruptcies; the availability of commercial and government financing and the extent to which we are called upon to fund outstanding financing commitments or satisfy other financing requests, and our ability to satisfy those requirements; the continuation of historical costs for fleet support services; the receipt of estimated award and incentive fees on U.S. government contracts; the future demand for commercial satellites and projections of future order flow; the potential for technical or quality issues on development programs, including the Airborne Early Warning and Control program, International KC-767 Tanker, other fixed-price development programs, or commercial satellite programs, to affect schedule and cost estimates, or cause us to incur a material charge or experience a termination for default; the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation in which we are a party, and other contingencies; returns on pension fund assets, impacts of future interest rate changes on pension obligations and rising healthcare costs; our ability to access external capital resources to fund our operations; the amounts and effects of underinsured operations, including satellite launches; our ability to recover the proportionate amounts owed to us from the other Sea Launch partners; and the scope, nature or impact of acquisition or disposition activity and investment in any joint ventures/strategic alliances, including Sea Launch and United Launch Alliance, and indemnifications and guarantees related thereto.
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 


