FILE:BA/BA-8K-20090915102310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Consent and Undertaking dated July 26, 1978 of The Boeing Company (the "Company"), the Company has agreed to file a statement with the Commission reflecting changes to certain policies and procedures governing the appointment of foreign consultants. In particular, Company Policy POL-14, "Consultant Services" ("POL-14"), establishes guidelines for the selection, use and approval of consultant services generally. As relates to the appointment of foreign sales consultants, POL-14 is implemented through Company Procedure PRO-1557, "International Service Contractors" ("PRO-1557").
POL-14 was revised on June 9, 2009 to transfer the responsibility for matters related to the administration and review of, as well as the approval authority for amendments to, the policy from the Senior Vice President and General Counsel to the Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer. This change was made in order to place the responsibility for the content of the policy with the corporate function having greatest operational responsibility with respect to its implementation.
POL-14 and PRO-1557 are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Consultant Services
 
The company prefers to use its own employees in the conduct of business. The company may, however, engage consultants (including professional services and international service contractors) to acquire specialized knowledge or abilities that are not reasonably available within the company.
 
The company will engage consultants by written agreement only in accordance with this Policy and applicable Boeing procedures.
The company, its employees and consultants will observe all applicable laws and act only and always on a legitimate and ethical business basis. No employee, representative, or consultant will offer or use company funds, property or credits, directly or indirectly, for a payment or gift under circumstances where such payment or gift would constitute a bribe, kickback, or illegal payment or create the appearance of such.
When management determines it is advisable to use an international service contractor, such contractor must be retained in accordance with applicable Boeing procedures, subject (to the extent required by such procedures) to prior approval of each appointment by the Chief Executive Officer of The Boeing Company or delegate. Any amendment that changes the requirement for such approval by the Chief Executive Officer or delegate must have prior approval from the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company.
 
Business Units and other organizations of The Boeing Company will maintain records which properly reflect all financial transactions with respect to consultants and international service contractors and will not use or establish any fund or account, with respect to such consultants or international service contractors, outside normal accounting channels. With respect to international service contractors, an annual review of compliance with this policy will be presented to the Board of Directors.
 
Subsidiaries, subject to , "Legal Entities," will adopt this Policy and associated compliance procedures by Subsidiary Board Resolution as follows:
PRO-6470
Those subsidiaries for which employee services, processes, and financial accounting are the same as for the Boeing Business Units identified in , to which the subsidiary reports, shall adopt all applicable Procedures authorized by this Policy. All other subsidiaries (domestic and international) shall assure that there are processes in place for compliance with the following laws and regulations:
POL-1
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
International Service Contractors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An increase in total potential compensation due to the addition of new product lines (for a sales agent contract) or a new task (for a task based contract) is not a Significant Change unless:
 
 
Administrative changes to update personnel or temporarily extend an agreement to meet operational requirements do not require CEO or Executive Committee review.
 
 
ISCs must be Persons conducting bona fide activities. No Person will be engaged as an ISC if (a) Boeing believes that such Person is likely to offer or make (or has offered or made) a payment or gift, directly or indirectly, to any Owner, Affiliate, officer, director, employee, or representative of any Non-U.S. Customer, or a Foreign Official, under circumstances in which such payment or gift would constitute a bribe, a kickback, or other illegal payment under either U.S. or applicable foreign law or (b) the use of an ISC is prohibited by any applicable law, regulation, or decree. The ISC may not provide any ISC services for a Boeing Group Company unless an approved, fully executed written agreement is in effect with the ISC. Specifically, the ISC may not perform ISC services during any period following expiration of an ISC agreement prior to a written renewal thereof.
 
Payments to the ISC will be made pursuant to and consistent with the terms of the applicable written agreement. All payments will be made by check or bank transfer, payable to the ISC, in accordance with , "Company Payment Methods". No assignment of funds by an ISC to any other person or entity (other than a financial institution) will be permitted without the prior written approval of the Business Unit Law Department. Under no circumstances will any payment be made to any account unless the owner(s) of record of the account are identified. Payment will, unless otherwise authorized by the Business Unit Law Department, be made to the ISC's principal place of business as specified in the ISC Agreement.
PRO-6501
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provide training to the ISC relating to acquisition and use of third party proprietary information. is required for all ISCs. Training for is required if the ISC is supporting a Foreign Military Sales program, or otherwise required by Contracts & Pricing.
PRO-6375
PRO-70
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After approval by the Business Unit Executive Committee, the Senior Vice President and General Counsel ("SRVP- GC") shall review all agreements requiring SRVP-GC review and approval under Figure 4.2. The SRVP- GC may at his discretion exempt in writing certain ISCs or categories of ISCs from President and CEO approval. In the event that the SRVP- GC is unavailable, he may delegate in writing his approval authority to one of his direct reports.
 
If approved by the SRVP-GC and not exempted from President and CEO approval by the SRVP-GC, such agreements shall then be sent to the President and CEO for review and approval. In the event the President and CEO is unavailable, the President and CEO may delegate in writing his approval authority to another Boeing Executive Council member.
 
 
 
Only those ISC agreements, renewals and amendments that have been approved by the appropriate authorities may be executed.
Figure 4.2
 
 
Each ISC agreement will include the following representations and covenants. Prior approval of the Law Department is required for the deletion or material amendment of any of these terms.
 
 
 
 
(i) a Foreign Official,
(ii) an Owner, Affiliate, officer, director, employee, or representative of a Foreign Customer of the Boeing Group Company whose products are promoted under the agreement or, to the ISC's knowledge, any other Boeing Group Company products.
The ISC shall inform Boeing promptly of any change in such representation. Boeing has the right to terminate the ISC agreement if, in the judgment of Boeing, such change may constitute a conflict of interest or a violation of any applicable law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


