FILE:BA/BA-8K-20090226172620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 22, 2009, the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors (the "") of The Boeing Company (the "") approved cash-based performance awards (paid in cash or common stock at the Committee's discretion), stock option grants and restricted stock unit grants for executive officers under the Company's long-term incentive program (the ""). The 2009 Awards were effective on February 23, 2009. The Committee modified the components of these awards compared to prior grants, but maintained substantially the same total award value as in prior years. Since 2006, performance awards and options each comprised 50% of the total award value. For the 2009 Awards, a performance award will still represent 50% of the value and stock options and RSUs will each represent 25% of the total value. The terms and conditions of the performance awards and stock options are similar to those in prior years. The RSUs will vest and settle in common stock (on a one-for-one basis) on the third anniversary of the grant date. A copy of the Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units dated February 23, 2009 is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein.
Committee
Board
Company
2009 Awards
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
As part of the Executive Compensation Program, The Boeing Company (the "Company" has awarded you a Restricted Stock Unit award. The terms and conditions of the award are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
5.1 While RSUs are in your account, they will earn dividend equivalents in the form of additional RSUs. Specifically, as of each dividend payment date for Boeing stock, your RSU account will be credited with additional RSUs ("Earnings Credit RSUs") equal in number to the number of shares of Boeing stock that could be bought with the cash dividends that would be paid on the RSUs in your account if each RSU were a share of Boeing stock. The number of RSUs that results from the Earnings Credit calculation will be to two decimal places.
5.2 The number of shares of Boeing stock that could be bought with such cash dividends will be
calculated based on the "Fair Market Value" of Boeing stock on the applicable dividend payment date. "Fair Market Value" here means the average of the high and the low per share trading prices for Boeing stock as reported in for the specific dividend payment date, or in such other source as the Company deems reliable.
The Wall Street Journal
5.3 Earnings Credit RSUs will vest at the same time as the RSUs with which they are associated.
 
 
 
 
10.1 Distribution from your RSU account will be made as soon as reasonably possible after the vesting of your RSUs, but not later than 60 days after the applicable vesting date. Distribution will be in whole shares of Boeing stock. The number of shares distributed will be equal to the number of whole vested RSUs in your account, subject to deductions described in paragraph 10.2. Fractional share values will be applied to income tax withholding.
10.2 The Company will deduct from the distribution of your vested RSUs any withholding or other taxes required by law and may deduct any amounts due from you to the Company or to a subsidiary of the Company.
 
 
The Board shall, in all appropriate circumstances, require reimbursement of any annual incentive payment or long-term incentive payment to an executive officer where: (1) the payment was predicated upon achieving certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a substantial restatement of Company financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (2) the Board determines the executive engaged in intentional misconduct that caused or substantially caused the need for the substantial restatement; and (3) a lower payment would have been made to the executive based upon the restated financial results. In each such instance, the Company will, to the extent practicable, seek to recover from the individual executive the amount by which the individual executive's incentive payments for the relevant period exceeded the lower payment that would have been made based on the restated financial results. For purposes of this policy, the term "executive officer" means any officer who has been designated an executive officer by the Board.


