FILE:BA/BA-8K-20091029163518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At its scheduled meeting on October 25, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company (the "") approved an amendment to the restricted stock unit grant effective June 22, 2009 (the ") to James A. Bell, Executive Vice President, Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer. The amendment reduces the restricted stock units to 42,000 and changes the vesting date of the original award. The Amended Award is effective October 26, 2009.
Company
"Amended Award
The Amended Award was made under the Company's 2003 Incentive Stock Plan (the ) and is subject to the terms and conditions of the 2003 Plan. The Amended Award will vest 100% and settle in common stock (on a one-for-one basis) on December 31, 2011 and is subject to other terms contained in the Amended Form of Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units listed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
"2003 Plan"
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 29, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
The Boeing Company (the "Company") awarded you a Restricted Stock Unit award effective [Date], and, in connection therewith, issued you a Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units dated [Date] (the "Original Notice"). The terms and conditions of that award have been amended, and the amended terms and conditions are reflected in this Amended Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (the "Amended"). The Original Notice is hereby revoked and of no further force and effect.
 
 
 
 
 
5.1 While RSUs are in your account, they will earn dividend equivalents in the form of additional RSUs. Specifically, as of each dividend payment date for Boeing stock, your RSU account will be credited with additional RSUs ("Earnings Credit RSUs") equal in number to the number of shares of Boeing stock that could be bought with the cash dividends that would be paid on the RSUs in your account if each RSU were a share of Boeing stock. The number of RSUs that results from the Earnings Credit calculation will be to two decimal places.
5.2 The number of shares of Boeing stock that could be bought with such cash dividends will be
calculated based on the "Fair Market Value" of Boeing stock on the applicable dividend payment date. "Fair Market Value" here means the average of the high and the low per share trading prices for Boeing stock as reported in for the specific dividend payment date, or in such other source as the Company deems reliable.
The Wall Street Journal
5.3 Earnings Credit RSUs will vest at the same time as the RSUs with which they are associated.
 
 
 
 
10.1 Distribution from your RSU account will be made as soon as reasonably possible after the vesting of your RSUs, but not later than 60 days after the applicable vesting date. Distribution will be in whole shares of Boeing stock. The number of shares distributed will be equal to the number of whole vested RSUs in your account, subject to deductions described in paragraph 10.2. Fractional share values will be applied to income tax withholding.
10.2 The Company will deduct from the distribution of your vested RSUs any withholding or other taxes required by law and may deduct any amounts due from you to the Company or to a subsidiary of the Company.
 
 
 
 


