FILE:BA/BA-8K-20100310143235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 5, 2010, The Boeing Company ("the Company" or "we") entered into a Consultant Agreement (the "Agreement") with Scott E. Carson. Mr. Carson retired from the Company effective January 1, 2010, and had previously served as our Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Commercial Airplanes. The Agreement provides that Mr. Carson serve as a commercial airplane products and services consultant for the Company until March 12, 2012. Mr. Carson is entitled to a retainer fee of $1,533,100 (an amount equal to his 2009 targeted cash compensation) pursuant to the Agreement, and we will reimburse Mr. Carson for reasonable expenses necessarily incurred in connection with services provided under the Agreement. Mr. Carson will not be eligible for any additional benefits from us pursuant to this Agreement, although he will continue to receive those previously disclosed retirement benefits to which he remains entitled in connection with his former employment with us.
A copy of the Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The summary of the material terms of the Agreement set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to such exhibit.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
March 5, 2010
Mr. Scott E. Carson
Subject: Consultant Agreement between Scott E. Carson and The Boeing Company
Dear Scott:
Upon acceptance by you, this letter will constitute a Consultant Agreement between you and The Boeing Company ("Boeing"). The terms of this Agreement are described below:
 
 
 
 
Invoices shall be submitted on a monthly basis, shall include a description expenses incurred, shall reference this Agreement and shall bear the following certificate signed by you:
"I certify that the foregoing is a true and correct statement of accrued amounts payable in accordance with the provisions of the Consultant Agreement between Scott E. Carson and The Boeing Company, effective March 12, 2010, during the period covered by this invoice."
 
Mr. Scott E. Carson
Consultant Agreement
 
Expenses will be reimbursed to you to you promptly following receipt of invoices submitted to the Boeing Representative, or their delegate. You agree to follow applicable Boeing expense reimbursement, reporting and documentation policies and practices in claiming expenses and to maintain records in support of all expenses claimed. Such records shall be made available to Boeing for audit during reasonable times upon request, but not beyond one year after final payment. A sample invoice format is included as Exhibit 1.
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Scott E. Carson
Consultant Agreement
 
 
 
 
Please acknowledge your acceptance of this Agreement by signing and returning one original of this document in the envelope provided.
 
 
Mr. Scott E. Carson
Consultant Agreement
 
Exhibit 1
The Boeing Company
 
 
Expenses                                                                                                    $.USD
            
    
(Please attach supporting documents, such as receipts for hotel, airfare, meals, transportation, etc.)
Charge line(s):
                                                                                 
 
 
 
DOMESTIC CONSULTANT CERTIFICATE
Under the Consultant Agreement, effective on March 12, 2010, by and between The Boeing Company and (the "Agreement"), I, Scott E. Carson ("Consultant"), do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct statement of accrued amounts payable in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement during the period covered by this invoice
Scott E. Carson
I agree to notify Boeing immediately of any subsequent events or circumstances that may make any of the foregoing certifications inaccurate or false.
 
 


