FILE:BA/BA-8K-20110427074836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
(a) On April 27, 2011, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2011. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated April 27, 2011, reporting Boeing's financial results for the first quarter of 2011, furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports First-Quarter Results and Reaffirms 2011 Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported first-quarter net income of $0.6 billion, or $0.78 per share, on revenue of $14.9 billion. Operating margin of 6.7 percent reflects strong core performance across the company's businesses on expected lower volumes and higher pension expense. The year-ago quarter included a $0.20 per share tax charge on health care legislation (Table 1). The company also reaffirmed its 2011 revenue, earnings per share and operating cash flow outlook.
CHICAGO, April 27, 2011
"We're off to a good start in an important year for our company," said Jim McNerney, Boeing chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We delivered strong operating performance, made significant progress on 787 and 747-8 flight testing, and scored a major win on the U.S. Air Force Tanker program. Our outlook remains positive, and our people are focused on meeting customer commitments,
 
driving productivity and competitiveness gains, and capturing growth opportunities in our Commercial Airplanes and Defense, Space & Security businesses."
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
 
Boeing's quarterly operating cash flow was ($1.0) billion on the expected lower volumes and continued investment in development programs. Free cash flow* was ($1.4) billion in the quarter (Table 2).
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $7.8 billion at quarter-end (Table 3), down from $10.5 billion at year-end. Debt was $11.7 billion, down from $12.4 billion at year-end, primarily due to Boeing Capital Corporation maturities.
Total company backlog at quarter-end was $329 billion, up from $321 billion at year-end. Orders for the quarter were $23 billion and included a strong Commercial order mix, the U.S. Air Force KC-46A Tanker contract and the U.S. Navy P-8A low-rate initial production contract.
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes first-quarter revenue decreased by 5 percent to $7.1 billion on planned lower 777 deliveries. Operating margin was 7.2 percent, reflecting the lower deliveries and higher R&D (Table 4).
Flight testing on the 787 program continued during the quarter, surpassing 3,500 hours on 1,250 flights. First delivery is expected in the third quarter of 2011. Total firm orders for the 787 at quarter-end were 835 airplanes from 56 customers.
The 747-8 program flight test also progressed during the quarter, surpassing 2,500 hours on 900 flights. First flight of the 747-8 Intercontinental was achieved in March. Delivery of the first 747-8 Freighter is planned for mid-2011.
Commercial Airplanes booked 153 gross orders during the quarter while 47 orders were removed from its order book, bringing net orders to 106, up from the year-ago period when net orders were 83 airplanes. Backlog remains strong with over 3,400 airplanes valued at $263 billion.
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security
Table 5. Defense, Space & Security Operating Results
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security's (BDS) first-quarter revenue was $7.6 billion, while operating margin was 8.8 percent (Table 5).
Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) first-quarter revenue increased by $0.2 billion to $3.4 billion, due to higher deliveries. Operating margin was 10.9 percent, reflecting improved performance and mix in Global Strike programs and lower R&D. During the quarter, BMA completed full scale static testing of P-8A and achieved first flight on the F-15 radar modernization program.
Network & Space Systems (N&SS) first-quarter revenue was $2.3 billion. Operating margin was 6.1 percent, reflecting less favorable mix and lower earnings in the satellite business. During the quarter, N&SS successfully completed an Inmarsat-5 satellite milestone and final acceptance of a SkyTerra satellite.
Global Services & Support (GS&S) first-quarter revenue decreased by $0.2 billion to $1.9 billion, due to the conclusion of the KC-10 support program in 2010 and delivery timing in integrated logistics and training systems & services. Operating margin was 8.5 percent, reflecting lower earnings in integrated logistics and maintenance, modifications & upgrades. During the quarter, GS&S was awarded a performance based logistics contract for the C-17 Globemaster III Sustainment Partnership and a follow-on to extend the F-22 sustainment contract.
 
Backlog at BDS increased slightly to $66 billion, approximately two times the unit's expected 2011 revenue.
Additional Financial Information
Table 6. Additional Financial Information
 
During the quarter, Boeing Capital Corporation's (BCC) portfolio balance declined to $4.5 billion, down from $4.7 billion at the beginning of the year on run-off and asset sales. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio was unchanged at 5.0-to-1.
The "Other" segment consists primarily of Boeing Engineering, Operations and Technology, as well as certain results related to the financial consolidation of all business units.
Total pension expense for the first quarter was $526 million, as compared to $284 million in the same period last year. A total of $431 million was allocated to the operating segments in the quarter, up from $305 million in the same period last year, and $95 million was recognized in unallocated items, compared to a benefit of $21 million in the same period last year.
The company's income tax expense was $295 million in the quarter, down from $531 million in the same period last year, as the year-ago quarter included a $150 million ($0.20 per share) tax charge on health care legislation.
 
Outlook
The company's 2011 financial guidance (Table 7) is reaffirmed, reflecting solid core operating performance, higher pension expense, planned deliveries on development programs and the current defense contracting environment.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "projects," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Among these factors are risks related to: (1) general conditions in the economy and our industry, including those due to regulatory changes; (2) our reliance on our commercial customers, our suppliers and the worldwide market; (3) our commercial development programs, including the 787 and 747-8 commercial aircraft programs; (4) changing acquisition priorities of the U.S. government; (5) our dependence on U.S. government contracts; (6) our reliance on fixed-price contracts; (7) our reliance on cost-type contracts; (8) uncertainties concerning contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments; (9) changes in accounting estimates; (10) changes in the competitive landscape in our markets; (11) our non-U.S. operations, including sales to non-U.S. customers; (12) potential adverse developments in new or pending litigation and/or government investigations; (13) customer and aircraft concentration in Boeing Capital Corporation's customer financing portfolio; (14) changes in our ability to obtain debt on commercially reasonable terms and at competitive rates in order to fund our operations and contractual commitments; (15) realizing the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or divestitures; (16) the adequacy of our insurance coverage to cover significant risk exposures; (17) potential business disruptions related to physical security threats, information technology attacks or natural disasters; (18) work stoppages or other labor disruptions; (19) significant changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets; and (20) potential environmental liabilities.
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


