FILE:BA/BA-8K-20111026074838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
(a) On October 26, 2011, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter of 2011. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated October 26, 2011, reporting Boeing's financial results for the third quarter of 2011, furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports Third-Quarter Results and Raises 2011 EPS Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported third-quarter net income of $1.1 billion, or $1.46 per share, on revenue of $17.7 billion. Operating margin of 9.7 percent reflects continued strong core performance across the company's businesses, partially offset by higher pension expense.
CHICAGO, October 26, 2011
The company increased its 2011 earnings per share guidance to between $4.30 and $4.40 per share reflecting the strong core performance. Total company 2011 revenue is narrowed to between $68 and $70 billion. Operating cash flow guidance is unchanged.
"Strong operational performance drove double-digit margins in both of our major businesses and produced an outstanding quarter," said Boeing chairman, president and chief executive officer, Jim McNerney. "We also strengthened our foundation for accelerated growth by completing development and certification of the 787-8 Dreamliner and 747-8 Freighter, launching the new 737 MAX, and continuing our disciplined ramp
 
up in commercial airplane production rates. Our improved outlook for earnings reflects confidence in our market positions, and our team's relentless focus on productivity and disciplined execution."
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
 
Boeing's quarterly operating cash flow was $0.4 billion, with strong operating performance more than offsetting continued investment in development programs and discretionary pension funding of $0.5 billion. Free cash flow* was $0.1 billion in the quarter (Table 2).
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $9.2 billion at quarter-end (Table 3), up from $8.8 billion at the beginning of the quarter. Debt balances grew to $12.4 billion at quarter-end, up from $11.6 billion, due to the issuance of new debt at Boeing Capital Corporation.
Total company backlog at quarter-end was $332 billion, up from $323 billion at the beginning of the quarter. Net orders for the quarter were $26 billion and included a significant mix of wide-body commercial airplanes. Backlog is up $10.7 billion from year-end, reflecting $61 billion of net orders in the first nine months of 2011.
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes third-quarter revenue increased by 9 percent to $9.5 billion on higher deliveries and improved mix. Operating margin was 11.4 percent, reflecting continued strong operating performance (Table 4).
During the quarter, the 787-8 and 747-8 Freighter completed flight testing activities and achieved FAA certification. In September, the first 787 Dreamliner was delivered to launch customer, ANA, and, in October, the first 747-8 Freighter was delivered to Cargolux.
At quarter end, the 787 had 821 units sold firm and approximately 200 options. The company established the initial accounting quantity for the 787 program at 1,100 units, consistent with accounting practices applied on other new airplane programs.
Also during third quarter, the company launched the 737 MAX, the new engine variant of the 737. At the time of launch, the company had received nearly 500 order commitments.
Commercial Airplanes booked 255 net orders during the quarter and 426 during the first nine months of 2011. Backlog remains strong with more than 3,500 airplanes valued at $273 billion.
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security
Table 5. Defense, Space & Security Operating Results
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security's third-quarter revenue was $8.2 billion, while operating margin was 10.0 percent (Table 5).
Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) third-quarter revenue increased to $4.0 billion, due to higher Airborne Early Warning & Control deliveries and C-17 mix. Operating margin was 10.0 percent, reflecting strong operating performance and changes in delivery mix. During the quarter, BMA was awarded a contract from the U.K. Ministry of Defence to provide 14 CH-47 Chinook helicopters and associated support to the Royal Air Force and the KC-46A Tanker program successfully completed the Integrated Baseline Review with the U.S. Air Force.
Network & Space Systems (N&SS) third-quarter revenue was $2.3 billion. Operating margin was 7.9 percent, reflecting improved performance on the commercial satellite programs. During the quarter, N&SS was awarded a contract modification with the U.S. Air Force for the full production, launch and on-orbit activation of the seventh Wideband Global SATCOM satellite.
Global Services & Support (GS&S) third-quarter revenue was $2.0 billion. Operating margin was 12.7 percent, reflecting improved performance in integrated logistics. During the quarter, GS&S was awarded a contract from the U.S. Air Force for support and logistics to India's recently announced acquisition of 10 C-17 airlifters and a contract modification from the U.S. Navy for P-8A low rate initial production lot II support award.
 
Backlog at Defense, Space & Security decreased to $59 billion on run-off of multi-year contracts.
Additional Financial Information
Table 6. Additional Financial Information
 
During the quarter, Boeing Capital Corporation's (BCC) portfolio balance declined to $4.3 billion, down from $4.4 billion at the beginning of the quarter on portfolio run-off and asset sales. BCC's earnings decreased due to a smaller portfolio and higher asset impairments. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio rose to 6.2-to-1 on pre-funding of an early 2012 debt maturity.
The "Other" segment includes unallocated activities of Engineering, Operations and Technology, Shared Services Group as well as certain intercompany guarantees provided to BCC. During the quarter, Other segment earnings improved by $141 million as a result of assigning an upgraded credit rating to financing receivables with AirTran.
The loss in unallocated items and eliminations increased due to a one-time accounting adjustment for post-retiree medical of $161 million and higher pension expense. Total pension expense for the third quarter was $389 million, as compared to $280 million in the same period last year. A total of $331 million was allocated to the operating segments in the quarter, up from $301 million in the same period last year, and $58 million was recognized in unallocated items, compared to a benefit of $21 million in the same period last year.
 
Outlook
The company's 2011 financial guidance (Table 7) has been updated to reflect the strong core performance in both businesses.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
Boeing's 2011 earnings per share guidance is increased to between $4.30 and $4.40 per share, up from between $3.90 and $4.10 per share. Total company 2011 revenue is narrowed to between $68 and $70 billion.
Commercial Airplanes' deliveries guidance is now approximately 480, down from between 485 and 495, on lower planned deliveries on development programs (now a combined 15 to 20 787 and 747-8 units, from 25 to 30 units). Approximately two-thirds of the development programs deliveries are anticipated to be 747-8s. Operating margin
 
is improved to between 9.0 and 9.5 percent, from between 8.0 and 8.5 percent, reflecting strong core performance and the lower planned development program deliveries.
Defense, Space & Security's operating margin is improved to between 9.0 and 9.5 percent, from approximately 9 percent, reflecting the strong performance to date.
BCC's debt-to-equity ratio is expected to return to 5.0-to-1 in the first quarter of 2012 due to the repayment of maturing debt.
The company's 2011 R&D forecast is unchanged at between $3.7 and $3.9 billion. 2012 R&D is expected to decrease by approximately $0.3 to $0.5 billion.
Capital expenditures for 2011 have been reduced to approximately $1.7 billion, down from approximately $2.0 billion.
Pension expense for 2011 is now expected to be $1.7 billion, down from $1.8 billion. Based on current interest rates and market conditions, pension expense in 2012 is estimated to be approximately $2.6 billion, of which approximately $1.0 billion is expected to be recorded in unallocated items and eliminations. 2012 pension expense will be determined at year end based on market conditions at that time.
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measure (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measure. Other companies may define the measure differently. The following definition is provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "should," "expects," "intends," "projects," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Among these factors are risks related to: (1) general conditions in the economy and our industry, including those due to regulatory changes; (2) our reliance on our commercial customers, our suppliers and the worldwide market; (3) our commercial development programs, including the 787 and 747-8 commercial aircraft programs; (4) changing acquisition priorities of the U.S. government; (5) our dependence on U.S. government contracts; (6) our reliance on fixed-price contracts; (7) our reliance on cost-type contracts; (8) uncertainties concerning contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments; (9) changes in accounting estimates; (10) changes in the competitive landscape in our markets; (11) our non-U.S. operations, including sales to non-U.S. customers; (12) potential adverse developments in new or pending litigation and/or government investigations; (13) customer and aircraft concentration in Boeing Capital Corporation's customer financing portfolio; (14) changes in our ability to obtain debt on commercially reasonable terms and at competitive rates in order to fund our operations and contractual commitments; (15) realizing the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or divestitures; (16) the adequacy of our insurance coverage to cover significant risk exposures; (17) potential business disruptions related to physical security threats, information technology attacks or natural disasters; (18) work stoppages or other labor disruptions; (19) significant changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets; and (20) potential environmental liabilities.
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 


