FILE:BA/BA-8K-20111101125433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2011, the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company (the "Company") approved certain management changes at the Company. As described in the press release filed herewith, James A. Bell, Executive Vice President, Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, has announced his retirement from that position effective at the end of January 31, 2012. Mr. Bell will continue in his capacity as an Executive Vice President of the Company until April 1, 2012.
The Company has also announced the election of Gregory D. Smith as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective February 1, 2012. Mr. Smith, 45, has served as the Company's Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller since February 2010. Prior to that, he served as the Company's Vice President of Financial Planning & Analysis since June 2008. From August 2004 until June 2008, Mr. Smith served as Vice President of Global Investor Relations at Raytheon Company.
The Company has also announced the appointment of Diana L. Sands as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller effective February 1, 2012. Ms. Sands, 46, has served as the Company's Vice President of Investor Relations, Financial Planning & Analysis since February 2010. Prior to that, she served as the Company's Vice President of Investor Relations since February 2008. Ms. Sands has held several positions in the Company's Financial Planning & Analysis and Corporate Treasury departments since she joined the Company in 2001. In her new position, Ms. Sands will also serve as the Company's chief accounting officer.
Mr. Smith and Ms. Sands will receive salary, bonus and equity awards, and will participate in other benefit and compensation plans, at levels consistent with their respective seniority and scope of responsibility. The Company has not entered into or materially amended a material compensatory arrangement and has not granted or materially amended a material award in connection with these appointments.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Bell's retirement, as well as Mr. Smith's election as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Ms. Sands' appointment as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 1, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing CFO James Bell Announces April 2012 Retirement
 Corporate Controller Smith elected to replace Bell effective Feb. 1, 2012
Sands appointed corporate controller
CHICAGO, Nov.1, 2011 Boeing Executive Vice President, Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer James Bell has announced plans to retire from the company, effective April 1, 2012.
Greg Smith, 45, corporate controller and finance vice president, has been elected by Boeing's board of directors to succeed Bell as executive vice president and chief financial officer effective Feb. 1, 2012; the two will work together over the coming months to ensure a smooth transition.
Diana Sands, 46, vice president of investor relations and financial planning and analysis, has been appointed corporate controller, also effective Feb. 1, 2012.
Boeing Chairman, President and CEO Jim McNerney said Bell will leave a legacy of leadership in a career marked by exemplary personal and professional accomplishment.
"James Bell's service to Boeing has been extraordinary in many ways over many years," said McNerney. "As CFO he created a world-class finance organization and a culture of continuous improvement. His disciplined approach to financial management ensured our fiscal strength throughout his tenure, and his personal commitment to developing leaders created a strong, diverse team across our finance organization. As corporate president, he instilled a focus on excellence and teamwork by driving tighter integration across our businesses and functions."
Bell, 63, has served as CFO since 2003 and was appointed corporate president in 2008. He served as the company's interim CEO for several months in 2005, immediately preceding McNerney. "James has been an invaluable business partner to me and to our entire leadership team. His passion, strength of character, and 40 years of accomplishment will have a lasting impact on our company," McNerney said.
Smith has more than two decades of aerospace industry experience. Prior to being named corporate controller in February 2010, he led the company's financial planning and analysis and internal audit groups; served as controller of the Boeing Shared Services Group; and held various leadership and operational roles in supplier management, factory operations and program management. He led investor relations for Raytheon from 2004 to 2008.
"Greg is an extremely capable and seasoned industry leader with a uniquely broad background in finance, manufacturing and supply chain operations, and program management," McNerney said. "His insight into how the business works from the ground level up is a tremendous asset to have in a CFO."
Sands joined Boeing in 2001 from General Motors. She has led investor relations and financial planning and analysis since February 2010. She previously held key company positions in corporate treasury and other finance areas. Prior to General Motors, she worked in finance at Ameritech, Helene Curtis and Arthur Andersen.
Bell joined the company in 1972, at what was then Rockwell International, as a staff accountant; Boeing acquired Rockwell's aerospace business in 1996. His career spans a wide spectrum of assignments and roles across Boeing. Prior to his CFO role, he served as corporate controller. At the business operating group level, he was vice president of contracts for Boeing's defense and space businesses, and he also served in business management roles for the International Space Station program.
Bell plans to remain active in various civic, business and philanthropic roles. He is a member of the board of directors of Dow Chemical Company, the Chicago Urban League, World Business Chicago and the Chicago Economic Club.


