FILE:BA/BA-8K-20110727073641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
(a) On July 27, 2011, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of 2011. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated July 27, 2011, reporting Boeing's financial results for the second quarter of 2011, furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Boeing Reports Second-Quarter Results and Raises 2011 EPS Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported second-quarter net income of $0.9 billion, or $1.25 per share, on revenue of $16.5 billion. Operating margin of 9.3 percent reflects higher Commercial Airplanes volume and strong core performance across the company's businesses, partially offset by higher pension expense. The company increased its 2011 earnings per share guidance to between $3.90 and $4.10 per share reflecting the strong core performance. Total company 2011 revenue and cash flow guidance is unchanged.
CHICAGO, July 27, 2011
"Strong operational performance drove double-digit margins at both of our major businesses and produced outstanding results in the quarter," said Jim McNerney, Boeing chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We also made major progress toward certification and delivery of the 787 Dreamliner and 747-8 and continued our disciplined increases in commercial airplane production rates. Our outlook for the year has strengthened as our team continues its relentless focus on productivity improvement, cash management and program execution."
 
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
 
Boeing's quarterly operating cash flow was $1.6 billion, reflecting strong operating performance and continued investment in development programs. Free cash flow* was $1.3 billion in the quarter (Table 2).
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $8.8 billion at quarter-end (Table 3), up from $7.8 billion at the beginning of the quarter. Debt was essentially unchanged in the quarter.
Total company backlog at quarter-end was $323 billion, down from $329 billion at the beginning of the quarter. Net orders for the quarter were $12 billion and included a significant mix of wide-body commercial airplanes. Backlog is up $2.7 billion from year-end, reflecting $35 billion of net orders in the first half of 2011.
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes second-quarter revenue increased by 19 percent to $8.8 billion on higher deliveries, improved model mix and higher services volume. Operating margin was 10.4 percent, reflecting the higher revenue and strong operating performance, partially offset by higher R&D (Table 4).
Flight testing activities on the 787 and 747-8 Freighter programs are nearing completion. During the quarter, both programs entered into Function and Reliability testing, while the 787 program also began Extended Operations testing. First deliveries of the 787 and 747-8 Freighter are expected later in the third quarter.
Total firm orders for the 787 at quarter-end were 827 airplanes from 57 customers. Commercial Airplanes booked 65 net orders during the quarter and 171 during the first half of 2011. Backlog remains strong with more than 3,300 airplanes valued at $262 billion.
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security
Table 5. Defense, Space & Security Operating Results
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security's second-quarter revenue was $7.7 billion, while operating margin was 10.4 percent (Table 5).
Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) second-quarter revenue was $3.6 billion. Operating margin was 10.6 percent, reflecting strong operating performance. Last year's results were impacted by a charge on the Airborne Early Warning & Control program. During the quarter, India signed an agreement for ten C-17s, which are expected to be on contract later this year, and BMA was awarded the U.S. Navy's study contract for the Unmanned Carrier-Launched Airborne Surveillance and Strike Program.
Network & Space Systems (N&SS) second-quarter revenue decreased to $2.1 billion, due to funding reductions in Brigade Combat Team Modernization and lower SBInet volume. Operating margin was 9.5 percent, reflecting United Launch Alliance performance and a gain on the sale of property. During the quarter, the GPS Operational Control Segment entered service with the U.S. Air Force and the High Energy Laser program completed system integration.
Global Services & Support (GS&S) second-quarter revenue was $2.0 billion. Operating margin was 10.9 percent, reflecting strong performance in integrated logistics. During the quarter, GS&S was awarded modernization and upgrade contracts from the U.S. Air Force.
Backlog at Defense, Space & Security decreased to $61 billion on run-off of multi-year contracts, and remains nearly two times the unit's expected 2011 revenue.
 
Additional Financial Information
Table 6. Additional Financial Information
 
During the quarter, Boeing Capital Corporation's (BCC) portfolio balance declined to $4.4 billion, down from $4.5 billion at the beginning of the quarter on run-off and asset sales. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio was unchanged at 5.0-to-1.
The "Other" segment includes unallocated activities of Engineering, Operations and Technology, Shared Services Group as well as certain intercompany guarantees provided to BCC.
The loss in unallocated items and eliminations increased primarily due to higher pension expense. Total pension expense for the second quarter was $389 million, as compared to $283 million in the same period last year. A total of $326 million was allocated to the operating segments in the quarter, up from $305 million in the same period last year, and $63 million was recognized in unallocated items, compared to a benefit of $22 million in the same period last year.
 
Outlook
The company's 2011 financial guidance (Table 7) has been updated to reflect the strong core performance in both businesses.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
Boeing's 2011 earnings per share guidance is increased to between $3.90 and $4.10 per share, up from between $3.80 and $4.00 per share.
Commercial Airplanes' deliveries guidance is now between 485 and 495, down from between 485 and 500, on lower planned deliveries on development programs (now a combined 25 to 30 787 and 747-8 units, from 25 to 40 units). Operating margin is improved to between 8.0 and 8.5 percent, from between 7.5 and 8.5 percent, reflecting strong core performance and the lower planned development program deliveries.
 
Defense, Space & Security's revenue guidance for 2011 is now between $31.5 and $32.5, from between $31.5 to $33 billion, on the current business environment. Defense, Space & Security's operating margin is improved to approximately 9 percent, from between 8.5 and 9 percent, reflecting the strong performance to date.
Capital expenditures for 2011 have been reduced to approximately $2.0 billion, down from approximately $2.3 billion.
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosure
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "projects," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Among these factors are risks related to: (1) general conditions in the economy and our industry, including those due to regulatory changes; (2) our reliance on our commercial customers, our suppliers and the worldwide market; (3) our commercial development programs, including the 787 and 747-8 commercial aircraft programs; (4) changing acquisition priorities of the U.S. government; (5) our dependence on U.S. government contracts; (6) our reliance on fixed-price contracts; (7) our reliance on cost-type contracts; (8) uncertainties concerning contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments; (9) changes in accounting estimates; (10) changes in the competitive landscape in our markets; (11) our non-U.S. operations, including sales to non-U.S. customers; (12) potential adverse developments in new or pending litigation and/or government investigations; (13) customer and aircraft concentration in Boeing Capital Corporation's customer financing portfolio; (14) changes in our ability to obtain debt on commercially reasonable terms and at competitive rates in order to fund our operations and contractual commitments; (15) realizing the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or divestitures; (16) the adequacy of our insurance coverage to cover significant risk exposures; (17) potential business disruptions related to physical security threats, information technology attacks or natural disasters; (18) work stoppages or other labor disruptions; (19) significant changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets; and (20) potential environmental liabilities.
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


