FILE:BA/BA-8K-20121219172041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Current Report
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACTOF 1934
December 17, 2012
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company (the Company) has approved a grant of 60,000 restricted stock units (the Award) to Dennis A. Muilenburg, the Company's Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Boeing Defense, Space & Security. The Award was granted on December 17, 2012 in recognition of Mr. Muilenburg's performance and as a retention vehicle. The Award will vest 100% and settle in shares of the Company's common stock on a one-for-one basis on December 17, 2016, which is the fourth anniversary of the grant date. The Award was made under the Company's 2003 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated (the 2003 Plan), and is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the 2003 Plan and the Form of Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
THE BOEING COMPANY
Dated: December 19, 2012
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 10.1
Notice of Terms of
Restricted Stock Units
[Grant Date]
To:
        
BEMSID:
    
As part of the Executive Compensation Program, The Boeing Company (the Company) has awarded you a Restricted Stock Unit award. The terms and conditions of the award are as follows:
"Disability" here means a disability entitling a participant to benefits under a long-term disability policy sponsored by the Company or one of its subsidiaries.
5.1 While RSUs are in your account, they will earn dividend equivalents in the form of additional RSUs. Specifically, as of each dividend payment date for Boeing stock, your RSU account will be credited with additional RSUs (Earnings Credit RSUs) equal in number to the number of shares of Boeing stock that could be bought with the cash dividends that would be paid on the RSUs in your account if each RSU were a share of Boeing stock. The number of RSUs that results from the Earnings Credit calculation will be to two decimal places.
5.2 The number of shares of Boeing stock that could be bought with such cash dividends will be calculated based on the Fair Market Value of Boeing stock on the applicable dividend payment date. Fair Market Value here means the average of the high and the low per share trading prices for Boeing stock as reported in
The Wall Street Journal
for the specific dividend payment date, or in such other source as the Company deems reliable.
5.3 Earnings Credit RSUs will vest at the same time as the RSUs with which they are associated.
9.1 Distribution from your RSU account will be made as soon as reasonably possible after the vesting of your RSUs, but not later than 60 days after the applicable vesting date. Distribution will be in whole shares of Boeing stock. The number of shares distributed will be equal to the number of whole vested RSUs in your account, subject to deductions described in paragraph 9.2. Fractional share values will be applied to income tax withholding.
9.2 The Company will deduct from the distribution of your vested RSUs any withholding or other taxes required by law and may deduct any amounts due from you to the Company or to a subsidiary of the Company.


