FILE:BA/BA-8K-20120125074600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
(a) On January 25, 2012, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2011. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated January 25, 2012, reporting Boeing's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2011, furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports Strong Fourth-Quarter Results and Provides 2012 Guidance
Fourth-Quarter 2011
 
 
 
Full Year 2011
 
 
 
Outlook for 2012
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported fourth-quarter net income rose to $1.4 billion, or $1.84 per share, on revenue of $19.6 billion. The results reflect continued strong core performance across the company's businesses, a $0.52 per share impact related to a favorable tax settlement, and higher pension expense (Table 1). Fourth-quarter 2010 results included a $0.50 per share favorable tax settlement.
CHICAGO, Jan. 25, 2012
 
Net income for the full year increased to $4.0 billion, or $5.34 per share, on revenue of $68.7 billion, which included the impact of the favorable tax settlement ($0.53 per share for the year). Full-year 2010 results included the $0.50 per share favorable tax settlement and a $0.20 per share tax charge resulting from health care legislation.
Earnings guidance for 2012 has been established at between $4.05 and $4.25 per share reflecting solid core performance and higher pension expense. Revenue guidance for 2012 is between $78 and $80 billion.
"Strong fourth-quarter operating performance, record revenue and backlog, and expanded earnings and cash flow capped a year of substantial progress for Boeing in 2011," said Jim McNerney, Boeing chairman, president, and chief executive officer. "Major accomplishments of our team during the year included certifying and delivering the first 787s and 747-8s, winning the U.S. Air Force Tanker program, launching the 737 MAX, and securing both an important U.S. missile defense contract and a key agreement for F-15s to Saudi Arabia."
"We enter 2012 with renewed momentum, and proven business and product strategies. With a record backlog and intense focus on productivity, we are well positioned to deliver growth and increased competitiveness, even as we face constrained U.S. defense spending and pension headwinds. Our priorities for the year are to continue with disciplined increases in production rates for our commercial airplane customers, and to build on our strong position in defense, space and security with aggressive pursuit of growth in core, adjacent and international markets," he said.
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
 
Boeing's quarterly operating cash flow was $2.9 billion, with strong operating performance more than offsetting continued investment in the 787 and 747-8 programs. For the full year, operating cash flow was $4.0 billion. Free cash flow* was $2.4 billion in the quarter (Table 2).
 
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $11.3 billion at year-end (Table 3), up from $9.2 billion at the beginning of the quarter. Debt was unchanged in the quarter.
Total company backlog at year-end was a record $356 billion, up from $332 billion at the beginning of the quarter. Net orders for the quarter were $42 billion and included a significant mix of wide-body commercial airplanes. Backlog is up $34.6 billion from prior year-end, reflecting $103 billion of net orders in 2011.
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes fourth-quarter revenue increased by 31 percent to $10.7 billion on higher delivery volume and mix. Operating margin was 9.2 percent, reflecting lower R&D partially offset by the dilutive impact of initial 787 and 747-8 deliveries and higher period costs (Table 4).
For the full year, revenue increased by 14 percent on higher delivery volume, increased services revenue and mix. Operating margin was 9.7 percent, reflecting
 
improved mix and lower R&D partially offset by higher period costs and the dilutive impact of initial 787 and 747-8 deliveries.
During the quarter, the first 747-8 Freighter was delivered to Cargolux and the 747-8 Intercontinental achieved FAA certification. Also during the quarter, the company and the International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers reached agreement on a four-year contract extension primarily related to machinists in Puget Sound.
At year-end, the company had over 1,000 orders and commitments for the 737 MAX, including 150 firm orders from launch customer Southwest Airlines.
Commercial Airplanes booked 379 net orders during the quarter and 805 during the full year. Backlog remains strong with more than 3,700 airplanes valued at a record $296 billion.
Boeing Defense, Space & Security
Table 5. Defense, Space & Security Operating Results
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security's fourth-quarter revenue increased by 4 percent to $8.5 billion, while operating margin was 10.2 percent (Table 5).
For the full year, revenue was unchanged at $32.0 billion. Operating margin increased to 9.9 percent, driven by higher Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) margins.
BMA fourth-quarter revenue increased to $3.9 billion, due to Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) mix and higher KC-767 International Tanker deliveries partially offset by fewer C-17 deliveries. Operating margin increased to 9.5 percent, reflecting strong execution across various programs. Fourth-quarter 2010 included charges for higher costs on the AEW&C program. During the quarter, the U.S. Government and Saudi Arabia reached agreement on the purchase of 84 new F-15SA
 
aircraft and upgrades to an additional 70 F-15Ss. Additionally, BMA was awarded the P-8A low rate initial production lot II production award from the U.S. Navy.
Network & Space Systems (N&SS) fourth-quarter revenue decreased to $2.0 billion, due to lower volume driven by termination of the Brigade Combat Team Modernization program. Operating margin decreased to 8.6 percent, reflecting higher R&D. During the quarter, N&SS was awarded the development and sustainment contract for Ground-based Midcourse Defense from the U.S. Missile Defense Agency. Also during the quarter, N&SS delivered the first 702 medium power satellite.
Global Services & Support (GS&S) fourth-quarter revenue increased to $2.6 billion, due to higher revenues in integrated logistics. Operating margin decreased to 12.6 percent, reflecting the current defense contracting environment. During the quarter, GS&S was awarded the C-17 Globemaster III Integrated Sustainment Program from the U.S. Air Force.
Backlog at Defense, Space & Security was $60 billion.
Additional Financial Information
Table 6. Additional Financial Information
 
At year-end, Boeing Capital Corporation's (BCC) portfolio balance was $4.3 billion, unchanged from the beginning of the quarter and down from $4.7 billion at the start of the year. BCC's earnings decreased due to a smaller portfolio and higher asset impairments. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio was unchanged at 6.2-to-1.
The "Other" segment includes unallocated activities of Engineering, Operations and Technology, Shared Services Group as well as certain intercompany guarantees
 
provided to BCC. Other segment earnings of $43 million in the fourth quarter 2011 were driven by assigning an upgraded credit rating category to certain financing receivables.
The loss in unallocated items and eliminations increased due to higher pension and deferred compensation expense partially offset by a charitable trust contribution that impacted fourth-quarter 2010. Total pension expense for the fourth quarter was $344 million, as compared to $254 million in the same period last year. A total of $291 million was allocated to the operating segments in the quarter, up from $244 million in the same period last year, and $53 million was recognized in unallocated items, compared to $10 million in the same period last year.
The company's income tax expense of $57 million in the quarter (compared to a benefit of $163 million in the same period last year) included a $397 million non-cash gain due to an IRS settlement for tax years 2004 through 2006. Fourth-quarter 2010 included a $371 million non-cash gain due to an IRS settlement and a benefit of $154 million due to the extension of the R&D credit.
 
Outlook
The company's 2012 financial guidance (Table 7) reflects continued strong core performance, generating a 7 percent increase in adjusted earnings per share*, which is offset by higher pension expense and other items.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
Boeing's 2012 revenue guidance is between $78 and $80 billion. Earnings guidance for 2012 is established at between $4.05 and $4.25 per share. Total pension expense in 2012 is expected to be $2.6 billion (of which approximately $1.0 billion is expected to be recorded in unallocated items and eliminations) or $2.21 per share, an increase of $0.83 per share from 2011. Operating cash flow is expected to be greater than $5.0 billion in 2012, including $1.5 billion of discretionary pension contributions.
 
Commercial Airplanes' 2012 deliveries are expected to be between 585 and 600 airplanes and is sold out. This includes an expected 70 to 85 787 and 747-8 deliveries, of which approximately half are 787 aircraft. Commercial Airplanes' 2012 revenue is expected to be between $47.5 and $49.5 billion with operating margins between 8.5 and 9 percent.
Defense, Space & Security's revenue for 2012 is expected to be between $30.0 and $30.5 billion with operating margins greater than 9.0 percent.
Boeing Capital Corporation expects that its aircraft finance portfolio will continue to decline in 2012, as new aircraft financing of less than $0.5 billion is expected to be lower than normal portfolio runoff through customer payments and depreciation. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio is expected to return to 5.0-to-1 in the first quarter of 2012 due to the repayment of maturing debt.
Boeing's 2012 R&D forecast is between $3.3 and $3.5 billion. Capital expenditures for 2012 are expected to be approximately $2.0 billion.
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosures
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
Increase in Adjusted Earnings Per Share
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as GAAP adjusted for certain significant charges or credits. Management believes the increase in adjusted earnings per share is important to understanding the company's on-going operations and provide additional insights into underlying business performance. Significant charges or credits are described in the attachments to this release which provide reconciliations between GAAP earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share.
diluted earnings per share
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "should," "expects," "intends," "projects," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Among these factors are risks related to: (1) general conditions in the economy and our industry, including those due to regulatory changes; (2) our reliance on our commercial airline customers; (3) our commercial development programs, planned production rate increases across multiple commercial airline programs and the overall health of our production system; (4) changing acquisition priorities of the U.S. government; (5) our dependence on U.S. government contracts; (6) our reliance on fixed-price contracts; (7) our reliance on cost-type contracts; (8) uncertainties concerning contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments; (9) our dependence on our subcontractors and suppliers, as well as the availability of raw materials, (10) changes in accounting estimates; (11) changes in the competitive landscape in our markets; (12) our non-U.S. operations, including sales to non-U.S. customers; (13) potential adverse developments in new or pending litigation and/or government investigations; (14) customer and aircraft concentration in Boeing Capital Corporation's customer financing portfolio; (15) changes in our ability to obtain debt on commercially reasonable terms and at competitive rates in order to fund our operations and contractual commitments; (16) realizing the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures/strategic alliances or divestitures; (17) the adequacy of our insurance coverage to cover significant risk exposures; (18) potential business disruptions, including those related to physical security threats, information technology or cyber-attacks or natural disasters; (19) work stoppages or other labor disruptions; (20) significant changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets; (21) potential environmental liabilities; and (22) threats to the security of our or our customers' information.
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude certain significant charges or credits or highlight certain significant items that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding certain significant charges or credits provides additional insights into underlying business performance. The company also believes that it is useful to highlight the significant impact pensions and the higher tax rate and shares have on the company's projected 2012 results. The determination of significant charges or credits or exclusion of certain items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and may vary from quarter to quarter.
 
 
 


