FILE:BA/BA-8K-20120425074351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
(a) On April 25, 2012, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of 2012. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated April 25, 2012, reporting Boeing's financial results for the first quarter of 2012, furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports Strong First-Quarter Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported first-quarter net income rose to $0.9 billion, or $1.22 per share, on revenue of $19.4 billion. Earnings per share rose 56 percent, reflecting continued strong core performance across the company's businesses, which more than offset higher pension expense (Table 1). The results also include an increase in earnings of $0.11 per share related to a reduction in a litigation-related reserve. Earnings per share guidance for 2012 increased to between $4.15 and $4.35 to incorporate the reduction in the litigation-related reserve. The company reaffirmed its 2012 revenue and operating cash flow outlook.
CHICAGO, Apr. 25, 2012
"Strong core operating performance from our production programs and services businesses continues to drive expanded earnings, revenue and cash flow for Boeing," said Jim McNerney, chairman, president, and chief executive officer. "We also grew our record backlog with more than 300 firm orders for our new 737 MAX, a contract award for 84 new F-15s for Saudi Arabia, and other key wins."
 
"Our outlook for the year remains positive, and our team is focused on meeting our commitments to customers, profitably increasing commercial airplane production and delivery rates, and building on our strong position in defense, space and security markets."
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
 
Boeing's quarterly operating cash flow was $0.8 billion, with higher commercial airplane deliveries, increased orders and strong operating performance more than offsetting continued investment in the 787 program. Free cash flow* was $0.4 billion in the quarter (Table 2).
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $10.5 billion at quarter-end (Table 3), down from $11.3 billion at the beginning of the year. Debt was $11.6 billion, down from $12.4 billion at year-end, primarily due to Boeing Capital Corporation maturities.
Total company backlog at quarter-end was a record $380 billion, up from $356 billion at the beginning of the year. Net orders for the quarter were $42 billion, as backlog increased for both Commercial Airplanes and Defense, Space & Security.
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes first-quarter revenue increased by 54 percent to $10.9 billion on higher delivery volume and mix. Operating margin was 9.9 percent, reflecting the higher deliveries and lower R&D partially offset by higher period costs and the dilutive impact of 787 and 747-8 deliveries (Table 4).
During the quarter, the first two GEnx-powered 787s were delivered. The first 747-8 Intercontinental VIP airplane was also delivered during the quarter.
Commercial Airplanes booked 412 net orders during the quarter, including 301 firm orders for the 737 MAX. Backlog remains strong with more than 4,000 airplanes valued at a record $308 billion.
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security
Table 5. Defense, Space & Security Operating Results
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security's first-quarter revenue increased to $8.2 billion, while operating margin was 9.0 percent (Table 5).
Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) first-quarter revenue increased to $4.3 billion, primarily due to initial revenue for the F-15 Saudi Arabia contract. Operating margin was 10.1 percent, reflecting strong execution across various programs. During the quarter, BMA was awarded both domestic and international C-17 Globemaster III orders and delivered the first production P-8A Poseidon aircraft to the U.S. Navy.
Network & Space Systems (N&SS) first-quarter revenue decreased to $1.8 billion, driven by lower volume on Brigade Combat Team Modernization and timing on United Launch Alliance. Operating margin was 4.1 percent, primarily due to the lower volume and satellite mix. During the quarter, N&SS launched its new 702 small satellite product line with a contract for four units through a joint international agreement.
Global Services & Support (GS&S) first-quarter revenue increased to $2.1 billion, due to higher volume in integrated logistics. Operating margin was 10.9 percent, reflecting improved performance in integrated logistics. During the quarter, GS&S was awarded a performance-based logistics contract for the sustainment of the Republic of Korea Air Force fleet of F-15s.
Backlog at Defense, Space & Security increased by 20 percent to $72 billion on F-15 and C-17 order activity in the quarter, bringing backlog to more than two times the unit's projected 2012 revenue.
 
Additional Financial Information
Table 6. Additional Financial Information
 
At quarter-end, Boeing Capital Corporation's (BCC) portfolio balance was $4.2 billion, down from $4.3 billion at the beginning of the year on portfolio run-off and asset sales. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio was 5.1-to-1, down from year-end, primarily due to the repayment of maturing debt.
The "Other" segment includes unallocated activities of Engineering, Operations and Technology, Shared Services Group as well as certain intercompany guarantees provided to BCC. Other segment expense of $79 million in the first quarter 2012 was primarily driven by higher asset impairment expense.
The loss in unallocated items and eliminations was essentially unchanged as a $131 million increase to earnings from a reduction in a litigation-related reserve was offset by higher pension expense. Total pension expense for the first quarter was $655 million, as compared to $526 million in the same period last year. A total of $466 million was allocated to the operating segments in the quarter, up from $431 million in the same period last year, and $189 million was recognized in unallocated items, compared to $95 million in the same period last year.
The company's effective tax rate was 36.8% in the quarter, up from 33.4% in the same period last year partly due to the expiration of the R&D tax credit legislation, which the company expects Congress to consider for extension later this year.
 
Outlook
The company's 2012 financial guidance (Table 7) reflects continued strong core performance offset by higher pension expense and other items. Earnings per share guidance for 2012 increased to between $4.15 and $4.35 to incorporate the earnings from the reduction in the litigation-related reserve. All other financial guidance is reaffirmed.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosures
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "should," "expects," "intends," "projects," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Among these factors are risks related to: (1) general conditions in the economy and our industry, including those due to regulatory changes; (2) our reliance on our commercial airline customers; (3) our commercial development programs, planned production rate increases across multiple commercial airline programs and the overall health of our aircraft production system; (4) changing acquisition priorities of the U.S. government; (5) our dependence on U.S. government contracts; (6) our reliance on fixed-price contracts; (7) our reliance on cost-type contracts; (8) uncertainties concerning contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments; (9) our dependence on our subcontractors and suppliers, as well as the availability of raw materials, (10) changes in accounting estimates; (11) changes in the competitive landscape in our markets; (12) our non-U.S. operations, including sales to non-U.S. customers; (13) potential adverse developments in new or pending litigation and/or government investigations; (14) customer and aircraft concentration in Boeing Capital's customer financing portfolio; (15) changes in our ability to obtain debt on commercially reasonable terms and at competitive rates in order to fund our operations and contractual commitments; (16) realizing the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures/strategic alliances or divestitures; (17) the adequacy of our insurance coverage to cover significant risk exposures; (18) potential business disruptions, including those related to physical security threats, information technology or cyber-attacks or natural disasters; (19) work stoppages or other labor disruptions; (20) significant changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets; (21) potential environmental liabilities; and (22) threats to the security of our or our customers' information.
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


