FILE:BA/BA-8K-20120725074439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
(a) On July 25, 2012, The Boeing Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of 2012. A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Not applicable
(b) Not applicable
(c) Not applicable
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Press Release issued by The Boeing Company dated July 25, 2012, reporting Boeing's financial results for the second quarter of 2012, furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Boeing Reports Second-Quarter Results and Raises 2012 EPS Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary Financial Results
 
 
* Non-GAAP measure. Complete definitions of Boeing's use of non-GAAP measures, identified by an asterisk (*), are found on page 7, "Non-GAAP Measure Disclosures."
 The Boeing Company [NYSE: BA] reported that second-quarter net income rose to $1.0 billion, or $1.27 per share, on revenue of $20.0 billion. Earnings per share rose 2 percent, reflecting continued strong core performance across the company's businesses, which more than offset higher pension expense (Table 1). Earnings per share guidance for 2012 increased to between $4.40 and $4.60 reflecting the strong core operating performance. The company also increased its revenue guidance to between $79.5 and $81.5 billion on higher Defense, Space & Security revenues, and reaffirmed its 2012 operating cash flow outlook.
CHICAGO, July 25, 2012
"Increased revenues and strong operating performance across both our major businesses drove significantly improved first-half 2012 results for Boeing," said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney. "Commercial airplane
 
deliveries increased 27 percent in the second quarter, and our defense, space and security business also produced higher revenues and strong margins in a difficult market environment. As a result of this solid first-half performance, we have strengthened our outlook for the year, and our people remain focused on disciplined execution, quality and productivity, and meeting customer commitments," McNerney said.
Table 2. Cash Flow
 
Boeing's quarterly operating cash flow before pension contributions* was $1.7 billion. Operating cash flow was $0.9 billion, with higher commercial airplane deliveries and strong operating performance more than offsetting continued investment in the 787 program and discretionary pension funding. Free cash flow* was $0.6 billion in the quarter (Table 2).
Table 3. Cash, Marketable Securities and Debt Balances
 
 
Marketable securities consists primarily of time deposits due within one year classified as "short-term investments."
1
Cash and investments in marketable securities totaled $10.3 billion at quarter-end (Table 3), down from $10.5 billion at the beginning of the quarter. Debt was $11.2 billion, down from $11.6 billion at the beginning of the quarter.
Total company backlog at quarter-end was $374 billion, down from $380 billion at the beginning of the quarter, and included net orders for the quarter of $13 billion.
 
Segment Results
Commercial Airplanes
Table 4. Commercial Airplanes Operating Results
 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes second-quarter revenue increased by 34 percent to $11.8 billion on higher delivery volume. Operating margin was 10.2 percent, reflecting higher period costs and the dilutive impact of 787 and 747-8 deliveries partially offset by the higher deliveries and lower R&D (Table 4).
During the quarter, final assembly of the first 787 built in South Carolina was completed and the first 747-8 Intercontinental passenger airplane was delivered.
Commercial Airplanes booked 28 net orders during the quarter. Backlog remains strong with approximately 4,000 airplanes valued at $302 billion.
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security
Table 5. Defense, Space & Security Operating Results
 
Boeing Defense, Space & Security's second-quarter revenue increased to $8.2 billion, while operating margin was 9.1 percent (Table 5).
Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) second-quarter revenue increased to $4.1 billion, primarily due to higher delivery volume. Operating margin decreased 1.8 points to 8.8 percent, as strong execution across various programs was more than offset by an inventory adjustment on A160. During the quarter, BMA was awarded the Apache Block III low rate initial production contract with the U.S. Army.
Network & Space Systems (N&SS) second-quarter revenue decreased to $1.9 billion, driven by lower volume on Brigade Combat Team Modernization. Operating margin was 6.7 percent, reflecting lower earnings in United Launch Alliance. During the quarter, N&SS was awarded its first international cybersecurity contract.
Global Services & Support (GS&S) second-quarter revenue increased to $2.2 billion, due to higher volume in integrated logistics. Operating margin was 11.9 percent, reflecting improved performance in maintenance, modification and upgrades. During the quarter, GS&S was awarded the F-15 Singapore follow-on performance-based logistics contract.
Backlog at Defense, Space & Security remained at $72 billion, more than two times the unit's projected 2012 revenue.
 
Additional Financial Information
Table 6. Additional Financial Information
 
At quarter-end, Boeing Capital Corporation's (BCC) portfolio balance was $4.1 billion, down from $4.2 billion at the beginning of the quarter on portfolio run-off and asset sales. BCC's debt-to-equity ratio was 5.0-to-1.
The "Other" segment includes unallocated activities of Engineering, Operations and Technology, Shared Services Group as well as certain intercompany guarantees provided to BCC. Other segment expense was $50 million in the quarter.
The loss in unallocated items and eliminations increased due to higher pension expense. Total pension expense for the second quarter was $593 million, as compared to $389 million in the same period last year.
 
Outlook
The company's 2012 financial guidance (Table 7) has been updated to reflect the strong core performance in both businesses.
Table 7. Financial Outlook
 
 
After discretionary cash pension contributions of $1.5 billion and assuming new aircraft financings under $0.5 billion.
1
2012 is sold out and includes an expected 70 to 85 787 and 747-8 deliveries, of which approximately half are 787 aircraft.
2
Approximately $0.8 billion is expected to be recorded in unallocated items and eliminations.
3
Earnings per share guidance for 2012 increased to between $4.40 and $4.60, up from between $4.15 and $4.35, reflecting the strong core operating performance. Total company 2012 revenue increased to between $79.5 and $81.5 billion, from between $78 and $80 billion, on higher Defense, Space & Security revenues.
Commercial Airplanes' operating margin improved to approximately 9 percent, from between 8.5 and 9 percent, reflecting the strong core performance.
 
Defense, Space & Security's revenue increased to between $31.5 and $32 billion, from between $30 and $30.5 billion, reflecting increased volume.
Non-GAAP Measure Disclosures
Management believes that the non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures (indicated by an asterisk *) used in this report provide investors with important perspectives into the company's ongoing business performance. The company does not intend for the information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Other companies may define the measures differently. The following definitions are provided:
Operating Cash Flow Before Pension Contributions
Operating cash flow before pension contributions is defined as GAAP less . Management believes operating cash flow before pension contributions provides additional insights into underlying business performance. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and operating cash flow before pension contributions.
operating cash flow
pension contributions
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is defined as GAAP less capital expenditures for . Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available for shareholders, debt repayment, and acquisitions after making the capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long term value creation. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures as it excludes certain mandatory expenditures such as repayment of maturing debt. Management uses free cash flow internally to assess both business performance and overall liquidity. Table 2 provides a reconciliation between GAAP operating cash flow and free cash flow.
operating cash flow
property, plant and equipment additions
 
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "should," "expects," "intends," "projects," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Among these factors are risks related to: (1) general conditions in the economy and our industry, including those due to regulatory changes; (2) our reliance on our commercial airline customers; (3) our commercial development programs, planned production rate increases across multiple commercial airline programs and the overall health of our aircraft production system; (4) changing acquisition priorities of the U.S. government; (5) our dependence on U.S. government contracts; (6) our reliance on fixed-price contracts; (7) our reliance on cost-type contracts; (8) uncertainties concerning contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments; (9) our dependence on our subcontractors and suppliers, as well as the availability of raw materials, (10) changes in accounting estimates; (11) changes in the competitive landscape in our markets; (12) our non-U.S. operations, including sales to non-U.S. customers; (13) potential adverse developments in new or pending litigation and/or government investigations; (14) customer and aircraft concentration in Boeing Capital's customer financing portfolio; (15) changes in our ability to obtain debt on commercially reasonable terms and at competitive rates in order to fund our operations and contractual commitments; (16) realizing the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures/strategic alliances or divestitures; (17) the adequacy of our insurance coverage to cover significant risk exposures; (18) potential business disruptions, including those related to physical security threats, information technology or cyber-attacks or natural disasters; (19) work stoppages or other labor disruptions; (20) significant changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets; (21) potential environmental liabilities; and (22) threats to the security of our or our customers' information.
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


