ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to provide a summary of significant factors relevant to the companys financial performance and condition. The discussion should be read together with the companys financial statements and related notes beginning on page 31. Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements On March 24, 2005, the company announced that it would restate certain historical results to correct errors in previously reported amounts related to income tax matters. This Form 10 K/A includes restated financial information. The correction of the errors results in an aggregate net increase in income tax expense of approximately $92 million (including approximately $2 million of tax benefit reflected in results from discontinued operations) for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, and an aggregate net decrease in income tax expense of approximately $46 million for years prior to fiscal 2002. The restatement adjustments result in a $45.6 million reduction of ending stockholders equity as of May 30, 2004. During fiscal 2005, the company has systematically conducted reviews of financial controls as a part of its Sarbanes Oxley 404 pre certification process and in connection with pending tax audits, as well as part of operational improvement efforts by new financial management. During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, those reviews resulted in the discovery of errors relating to accounting for income taxes, as described below: The company made errors in its fiscal 1997 tax return in the calculation of tax basis upon the formation of a pork subsidiary. Additional less significant tax basis calculation errors also occurred. Upon the sale of the beef and pork businesses in fiscal 2003, as a result of the basis calculation errors, the company incorrectly calculated a capital loss and recognized a deferred tax asset with an offsetting valuation allowance. The company incorrectly recognized an income tax benefit when it applied the erroneous capital loss carryforward against capital gain transactions in fiscal 2004. The company made historical errors in accounting for income taxes for foreign operations, which resulted in errors in the amount of foreign tax credit benefits recorded and the calculation of tax expense on foreign source income and gains for tax purposes on foreign dispositions. The company also incorrectly calculated the amount of deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance for the foreign tax credit carryforwards available in fiscal 2003 and 2004. The Internal Revenue Service issued a report of its preliminary findings for its audit of the companys fiscal 2000 2002 tax returns subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005. In connection with this audit, the company had incorrectly recorded adjustments to the financial statements for the impact of computational errors made by the company related to its fiscal 2000 2002 tax returns. The company also made errors in 1) recording deferred taxes resulting in net overstatement of income tax expense in years prior to fiscal 2002; 2) the calculation of fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 tax expense which resulted in the company recognizing tax expense or benefits related to certain transactions in the incorrect periods; and 3) calculating the reserve for state tax contingencies, principally related to years prior to fiscal 2003. The principal financial statement impact of such errors noted above is summarized as follows: For periods prior to fiscal 2002, increased retained earnings by $45.8 million. For fiscal 2002, increased income tax expense $11.3 million; decreased net income $11.3 million; decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.02. For fiscal 2003, increased income tax expense $11.0 million; decreased net income $11.0 million; decreased diluted earnings per share $0.02. For fiscal 2004, decreased selling, general and administrative expenses $1.4 million; increased income tax expense $72.3 million; increased income from discontinued operations $2.4 million; decreased net income $68.5 million; decreased diluted earnings per share $0.13. 15 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) The company has also changed the presentation of cash flows from discontinued operations to separately present cash flows from discontinued operations for operating, investing and financing activities for all periods presented. The company has changed its presentation of equity method investment earnings to present such amounts below income tax expense for all periods presented. Certain other reclassifications have been made to amounts previously reported in the companys Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2004 to conform with amounts reported in the companys Form 10 Q for the thirty nine weeks ended February 27, 2005. See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. The accompanying Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations gives effect to such restatement. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW ConAgra Foods is one of North Americas largest packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, restaurants and other foodservice establishments, as well as food processors. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ACT II, Armour, Banquet, Blue Bonnet, Brown N Serve, Butterball, Chef Boyardee, Cooks, Crunch n Munch, DAVID, Decker, Eckrich, Egg Beaters, Fleischmanns, Guldens, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunts, Kid Cuisine, Knotts Berry Farm, La Choy, Lamb Weston, Libbys, Lightlife, Louis Kemp, Lunch Makers, MaMa Rosas, Manwich, Marie Callenders, Orville Redenbachers, PAM, Parkay, Pemmican, Peter Pan, Reddi wip, Rosarita, Ro*Tel, Slim Jim, Snack Pack, Swiss Miss, Van Camps, Wesson, Wolf and many others. Diluted earnings per share were $1.53 in fiscal 2004, compared with $1.44 in fiscal 2003. The earnings performance reflects progress with the companys strategic portfolio reshaping program and key operating initiatives. Over the past few years, the company has strategically repositioned its portfolio to focus on higher margin, branded and value added businesses because that business mix is expected to better serve consumers, customers and shareholders over the long run. Executing that strategy has involved acquiring branded operations and divesting commodity related businesses. The company is also implementing initiatives to improve the operating performance of its core business segments through more effective sales, marketing and supply chain functions. Divestitures During fiscal 2004, the company divested its chicken business, the U.S. and Canadian crop inputs businesses of United Agri Products (UAP North America) and its Spanish feed business. These divestitures, combined with prior year divestitures of the companys fresh beef and pork, canned seafood and cheese operations substantially complete a multi year program aimed at divesting the companys significant non core businesses in order to strategically reshape the company and focus the companys capital on branded, value added foods. Selected fiscal 2004 divestiture information is summarized below: PROCEEDS ($ in millions) DIVESTED OPERATION CASH COMMON STOCK PREFERRED STOCK TOTAL Chicken Business $ 301 $ 246 $ $ 547 UAP North America 503 60 563 Spanish Feed Business 83 83 Total $ 887 $ 246 $ 60 $ 1,193 As part of the chicken business divestiture, the company received 25.4 million shares of Class A common stock of Pilgrims Pride Corporation valued at $246 million at the time of the transaction, with a total carrying value of $392 million at the end of fiscal 2004 (see Liquidity and Capital Resources). The actual gains realized from the sale of the Pilgrims Pride shares will be subject to various risks, including timing of the sales and related fluctuations in market price. The final sales price of the chicken business was subject to a purchase price adjustment based on determination of the final net assets sold, which occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. As part of settling the final purchase price adjustment, the company paid $34 million to Pilgrims Pride. The company made adequate provisions for this final settlement in the fiscal 2004 financial statements. As part of the UAP North America divestiture, the company received $60 million of preferred securities from the buyer, Apollo Management, L.P. (Apollo). The fair value of these securities was determined to equal the face value as of the transaction date. Apollo later repurchased $26 million of the preferred securities for cash. The remaining preferred securities may be redeemed by Apollo early, but in no case later than December 2012. The final sales price of UAP North America was subject to a purchase price adjustment based on determination of the final net assets sold, which occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. As part of settling the final purchase price adjustment, the company received $60 million from Apollo. As of the end of fiscal 2004, each of the businesses in the above table is reported as discontinued operations within the companys consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. Also included in discontinued operations are the remaining businesses of the companys Agricultural Products segment (UAP International) and the Portuguese poultry operations. The Portuguese poultry operation was divested at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The company continues to actively market the UAP International operations and believes they will be divested during fiscal 2005. 16 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) Sales and Marketing Initiatives To strengthen brand equities and better allocate marketing investments, the company is implementing standardized, fact based marketing methods to better assess brand opportunities and evaluate marketing programs. To better serve customers and capitalize on growth opportunities, the company consolidated its retail sales force and established a team based approach for customers. Customers are now served by dedicated ConAgra Foods teams representing the entire portfolio of ConAgra Foods products. This approach improves customer service and provides the company with product bundling opportunities. In addition, the company substantially reduced the role of brokers during the year. The company believes these initiatives are beginning to favorably influence brand performance as sales of the companys top thirty consumer brands increased by 5% in fiscal 2004, including an estimated benefit of 2% from one additional week in fiscal 2004. The company also believes that continued focus on these sales and marketing initiatives, in combination with other operational initiatives related to improving customer service, will have a positive effect on sales growth and margin improvement over the next several years. Operational Initiatives The company has several operational initiatives underway to improve customer service and profit margins. Logistics: To improve customer service and supply chain efficiency, the company is retooling its logistics network. The company is transitioning from a network of hundreds of shipping locations across America to a network defined by fourteen geographically optimized mixing centers comprised of seven ambient temperature state facilities and seven temperature controlled facilities that will support all Retail and Foodservice operations. A mixing center is a large facility where multiple brands and products of a similar temperature state (shelf stable, refrigerated or frozen) are consolidated and shipped out together. As of the end of fiscal 2004, the company had completed and commissioned seven ambient state of the art temperature centers and three state of the art temperature controlled centers. The remaining centers will be completed during calendar 2005. Management believes this new logistics network will improve customer service, lower operating costs and lower working capital requirements. Information Systems: To link the information flow among key operating functions such as manufacturing, marketing, sales and logistics, the company is implementing strategic technology initiatives (using SAP software) known as project Nucleus. Management believes that project Nucleus will, in combination with other initiatives, be a key contributor to profitable future growth. Research and Development: To share research and development ideas more effectively, the company brought together technical expertise and food analytics testing capabilities into common locations known as Centers of Excellence. The Centers of Excellence are designed to improve the companys ability to create, modify and improve products and provide customer solutions. Operational Efficiency Initiatives: During fiscal 2004, the company implemented certain operational efficiency initiatives. These initiatives are intended to improve the companys cost structure, margins and competitive position through the elimination of duplicative costs and overhead, consolidation of selected plants and support functions and realignment of businesses. Costs associated with the implementation of such initiatives are being recognized as incurred and are expected to continue into fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2004, the company recognized charges associated with these initiatives of approximately $62 million. The company anticipates additional charges of approximately $28 million will be recognized during fiscal 2005. The company believes it will generate benefits to its cost structure, as well as synergies related to other sales and customer service initiatives, in fiscal 2005 and beyond which will more than offset these costs. Share Repurchase Program As a result of the companys favorable cash position resulting primarily from divestitures and cash flows generated from operations, in fiscal 2004 the company initiated a share repurchase program with authority to purchase up to $1 billion. As of the end of fiscal 2004, the company had repurchased approximately 15 million common shares at a total cost of $419 million. Management currently believes this program to be an appropriate use of the available cash and plans to continue the share repurchase program during fiscal 2005. Additional Items Affecting Comparability Certain other significant items affect the year over year comparability of the companys results of operations, as described below: The companys fiscal 2004 results include fifty three weeks of operations, while fiscal 2003 results include fifty two weeks of operations. The estimated impact of the extra week in fiscal 2004 is additional net sales of approximately $289 million and additional operating profit of approximately $41 million. The results of discontinued operations reflect income of $99 million in fiscal 2004 and a loss of $36 million in fiscal 2003. 17 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) Fiscal 2003 results include net sales of approximately $3.1 billion and operating profit of $149 million related to the businesses divested during fiscal 2003, including the fresh beef and pork, canned seafood and processed cheese operations. Opportunities and Challenges The company believes that its sales, marketing and operating initiatives will favorably influence future profits, profit margins and returns on capital. The company is facing increased costs for many of its significant raw materials, packaging and energy inputs. When appropriate, the company uses long term purchase contracts, futures and options to reduce the volatility of these costs. The company has also recently implemented sales price increases for certain products and will continue to evaluate further price increases based on raw material cost trends, expected impact on sales volumes and other factors. Changing consumer preferences may impact sales of certain of the companys products. The company offers a variety of food products which appeal to a range of consumer preferences and utilizes innovation and marketing programs to develop products that fit with changing consumer trends. As part of these programs, the company introduces new products and product extensions. Products introduced in fiscal 2004 included: Life Choice, Banquet Crock Pot Classics, Healthy Choice Frozen Desserts and many others. Consolidation of many of the companys customers continues to result in increased buying power, negotiating strength and complex service requirements for those customers. This trend, which is expected to continue, may negatively impact gross margins, particularly in the Retail Products segment. In order to effectively respond to this customer consolidation, during fiscal 2004 the company consolidated its sales force to more efficiently service its customers and to appropriately leverage the companys scale. In fiscal 2003, the companys retail customer service centers were consolidated into one specialized facility to service all retail channel customers. The company continues to streamline its distribution network in order to reduce costs and increase its responsiveness to customer needs. SEGMENT REVIEW The companys operations are organized into three reporting segments: Retail Products, Foodservice Products and Food Ingredients. The company historically aggregated its retail and foodservice operations within the companys Packaged Foods reporting segment. As a result of the recent strategic portfolio changes and management realignment in fiscal 2004, the company now reports its retail and foodservice operations as two separate reporting segments. The Retail Products reporting segment includes branded foods which are sold in various retail channels and includes frozen, refrigerated and shelf stable temperature classes. The Foodservice Products reporting segment includes branded and customized food products, including meals, entrees, prepared potatoes, meats, seafood, sauces and a variety of custom manufactured culinary products packaged for sale to restaurants and other foodservice establishments. The Food Ingredients reporting segment includes both branded and commodity food ingredients, including milled grain ingredients, seasonings, blends and flavorings, which are sold to food processors, as well as certain commodity sourcing and merchandising operations. 2004 vs. 2003 Net Sales ($ in millions) REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2004 NET SALES FISCAL 2003 NET SALES % INCREASE/ (DECREASE) Retail Products $ 8,434 $ 8,668 (3 )% Foodservice Products 3,714 3,598 3 % Food Ingredients 2,374 2,204 8 % Meat Processing 2,469 (100 )% Total $ 14,522 $ 16,939 (14 )% Overall company net sales declined $2.4 billion to $14.5 billion, primarily reflecting the impact of the fresh beef and pork divestiture in fiscal 2003 and the sale of the canned seafood and processed cheese related operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Prior year sales included approximately $3.1 billion from the divested businesses, while current year sales included none. These decreases were partially offset by the $289 million estimated impact on net sales of one additional week included in the results of operations for fiscal 2004. The company believes that its sales and marketing initiatives (discussed in the Executive Overview) have begun to favorably influence brand performance. Retail Products net sales declined $234 million for the year to $8.4 billion. Included in results for fiscal 2003 were net sales of $493 million from the canned seafood business, which was divested in fiscal 2003. This decrease was partially offset by the estimated impact of one additional week included in the results of operations for fiscal 2004, an increase to net sales of approximately $165 million. Sales of the companys key branded products showed mixed results, as sales of some of the companys most significant brands including Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Wesson, Slim Jim, PAM, Egg Beaters and Reddi wip grew on a comparable fifty two week basis. Major brands 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) posting sales declines for the year included Healthy Choice, Butterball, Armour, ACT II and Orville Redenbachers. In addition to the sales and marketing initiatives previously discussed, new products and product extensions in the frozen meals and entrees category, such as Banquet Crock Pot Classics and Life Choice, positively impacted the Retail Products segment net sales for the year. Weak sales volume in popcorn products, driven by intense competition in the category and consumer trends, negatively impacted the segments performance. Net sales in the Foodservice Products segment were $3.7 billion, an increase of $116 million. Included in results for fiscal 2003 were net sales of $93 million from divested businesses. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one additional week of net sales in fiscal 2004 was an increase of approximately $70 million. Sales of specialty potato products and shelf stable and specialty meats within the culinary product line achieved increased sales volumes during fiscal 2004. Improved unit pricing within the specialty potato and specialty meats products also contributed to increased net sales. Food Ingredients net sales increased $170 million to $2.4 billion. The increase in sales was primarily driven by the pass through of increases in commodity raw material costs, favorable results from commodity (including energy) merchandising and approximately $55 million related to the additional week in fiscal 2004. Due to the fresh beef and pork divestiture, the Meat Processing segment includes no sales for fiscal 2004. Net sales in fiscal 2003 were $2.5 billion. Gross Profit (Net sales less cost of goods sold) ($ in millions) REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2004 GROSS PROFIT FISCAL 2003 GROSS PROFIT % INCREASE/ (DECREASE) Retail Products $ 2,289 $ 2,455 (7 )% Foodservice Products 570 540 6 % Food Ingredients 348 291 20 % Meat Processing 83 (100 )% Total $ 3,207 $ 3,369 (5 )% The companys gross profit for fiscal 2004 was $3.2 billion, a decrease of $162 million, or 5%, from the prior year. The decrease reflects $168 million of gross profit in fiscal 2003 related to businesses the company no longer owns, $34 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2004 to implement the companys operational efficiency initiatives and higher input costs, which were not fully offset by higher selling prices, offset by an estimated $60 million of gross profit related to the additional week in fiscal 2004. Retail Products gross profit for fiscal 2004 was $2.3 billion, a decrease of $166 million from fiscal 2003. Included in the prior year gross profit was $75 million from the divested canned seafood operations. Costs of implementing the companys operational efficiency initiatives reduced gross profit by $20 million. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one extra week in the current fiscal year was an increase in gross profit of approximately $42 million. Additionally, the segments gross profit decreased due to a less favorable product mix, increased input costs, which were not fully offset by increased selling prices, primarily in refrigerated meat products and an extremely competitive environment for popcorn products. Foodservice Products gross profit for fiscal 2004 was $570 million, an increase of $30 million over the prior fiscal year. Included in the prior year gross profit was $10 million from businesses divested in that year and a charge of approximately $24 million resulting from the reduction of the values of certain refrigerated foodservice meat inventory. Costs of implementing the companys operational efficiency initiatives reduced gross profit by $13 million. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one extra week in the current fiscal year was an increase of approximately $11 million. The Food Ingredients segment generated gross profit of $348 million in fiscal 2004, an increase of $57 million over the prior fiscal year. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one extra week in the current fiscal year was an increase of approximately $7 million. Also favorably impacting fiscal 2004 gross profit was improved performance from certain value added food ingredient businesses, which included a $22 million lower of cost or market adjustment to inventory in fiscal 2003 and better results for commodity merchandising operations due to market volatility. Gross profit in the Meat Processing segment was $83 million in fiscal 2003. REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2004 GROSS MARGIN FISCAL 2003 GROSS MARGIN Retail Products 27 % 28 % Foodservice Products 15 % 15 % Food Ingredients 15 % 13 % Meat Processing 3 % Total 22 % 20 % The companys gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for fiscal 2004 increased two percentage points as compared to fiscal 2003, which reflects the companys divestitures of low margin operations and improvement in value added food ingredient products, offset by the impact of higher input costs, which were not fully offset by selling price increases, principally in the Retail Products segment. 19 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, includes General Corporate Expense (SG&A) SG&A expenses decreased $86 million, or 4%, to $1.8 billion for fiscal 2004. Prior year SG&A expenses included approximately $10 million from divested businesses and $38 million of transaction costs related to the fresh beef and pork divestiture. Costs of implementing the companys operational efficiency initiatives increased SG&A expenses by $27 million in fiscal 2004. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one extra week in fiscal 2004 was an increase of approximately $34 million. The results for fiscal 2004 include $25 million of litigation expense related to a former choline chloride joint venture with E.I. du Pont Nemours and Co. that was sold in 1997. In addition, in fiscal 2004 the company established a $25 million reserve in connection with matters related to an SEC investigation (see Other discussion within MD&A). These items were partially offset by a gain of $21 million recognized upon the sale of the companys cost method investment in a venture. Lower selling costs, marketing related costs and various other legal and insurance costs resulted in a favorable comparison with fiscal 2003. Operating Profit (Earnings before general corporate expense, interest expense, income taxes and equity method investment earnings) ($ in millions) REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2004 OPERATING PROFIT FISCAL 2003 OPERATING PROFIT % INCREASE/ (DECREASE) Retail Products $ 1,218 $ 1,298 (6 )% Foodservice Products 321 345 (7 )% Food Ingredients 197 125 58 % Meat Processing 99 (100 )% Retail Products operating profit decreased $80 million for the fiscal year to $1.2 billion. Included in prior year operating profit was $43 million from the divested canned seafood operations. Costs of implementing the companys operational efficiency initiatives decreased operating profit by $25 million. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one extra week in fiscal 2004 was an increase of $28 million. The remaining decline in operating profit is reflective of reduced gross profit, due to increased input costs, which were not fully offset by increased selling prices, primarily in refrigerated meat products, an extremely competitive environment in popcorn products and a less favorable mix of products. Foodservice Products operating profit declined $24 million to $321 million. Included in fiscal 2003 operating profit was $6 million from businesses divested in that year. Costs of implementing the companys operational efficiency initiatives decreased operating profit by $29 million. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one extra week in fiscal 2004 was an increase of $7 million. Increased gross profits were largely offset by significantly higher SG&A expenses related to information systems implementation costs. Food Ingredients operating profit increased $72 million to $197 million, primarily reflecting improved gross profits, as discussed above. Costs of implementing the companys operational efficiency initiatives decreased operating profit by $8 million. The estimated impact of the inclusion of one extra week in fiscal 2004 was an increase of $7 million. The Meat Processing segment generated operating profit of $99 million in fiscal 2003. Interest Expense, Net In fiscal 2004, net interest expense was $275 million, unchanged from the prior fiscal year. During fiscal 2004, the company closed out all $2.5 billion of its interest rate swap agreements. Of the $2.5 billion interest rate swaps closed out in fiscal 2004, $2.0 billion of the interest rate swaps had been used to effectively convert certain of the companys fixed rate debt into floating rate debt. The remaining $500 million portion of the companys interest rate swaps was used to hedge certain of the companys forecasted interest payments on floating rate debt for the period from 2005 through 2011. For financial statement and tax purposes, the proceeds received upon termination of the interest rate swap agreements will be recognized over the term of the debt instruments originally hedged. The companys net interest expense will continue to be favorably impacted by the interest rate swap agreements in fiscal 2005, but to a lesser extent than in fiscal 2004. Due to the decreased effect of the interest rate swaps and lower interest income, the company expects net interest expense to increase by approximately $40 million in fiscal 2005. Equity Method Investment Earnings Equity method investment earnings decreased to $44 million in fiscal 2004 from $46 million in fiscal 2003. This reflects decreased earnings from an investment in a South American joint venture, offset by higher profits due to a full year of results of the companys minority ownership in the fresh beef and pork joint venture established following the companys fresh beef and pork divestiture in September 2002. Income from the companys other equity method investments, which includes barley malting, potato processing and grain merchandising, did not substantially change from their fiscal 2003 amounts. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations was $99 million, net of tax, in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, the company recognized a net of tax loss from discontinued operations of $36 million. The year over year change primarily resulted from: 20 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) a fiscal 2003 pre tax charge of approximately $112 million related to lowering asset values in connection with the then pending chicken business sale, net pre tax income of $51 million recognized on the sales of the chicken business, UAP North America and the Spanish feed business in fiscal 2004, fiscal 2004 pre tax impairment charges of $27 million recognized to write down the long lived assets of the UAP International and Portuguese poultry operations to net realizable value, and significantly improved gross margins at the chicken business and UAP North America during the six month period of fiscal 2004 prior to the divestitures, relative to those generated in fiscal 2003, due to industry wide improvements in the markets for their products. The companys UAP North America operations had a fiscal year end of February, while the companys consolidated year end is May. Historically, the results of UAP North America have been reflected in the companys consolidated results on a three month lag (e.g., UAP North Americas results for June through August are included in the companys consolidated results for the period September through November). Due to the disposition of UAP North America on November 23, 2003, UAP North Americas results for the three months ending November 23, 2003, a net of tax loss of approximately $23.8 million, was recorded directly to retained earnings. If this business had not been divested, this net of tax loss would have been recognized in the companys fiscal 2004 consolidated statement of earnings. The comparable amount recorded in income (loss) from discontinued operations for the three month period ended November 24, 2002 was a loss of $19.6 million. Income Taxes and Net Income The effective tax rate (calculated as the ratio of income tax expense to pre tax income from continuing operations, inclusive of equity method investment earnings) was 37% for fiscal 2004 and 35% in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2004, the company reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with respect to the IRSs examination of the companys tax returns for fiscal years 1996 through 1999. As a result of the favorable resolution of these matters, the company reduced income tax expense by $27 million. This was partially offset by the net tax impact related to the divestiture of certain foreign entities which increased income tax expense by approximately $21 million during fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2003, the company divested its fresh beef and pork operations. As a result, the company generated foreign tax credits in excess of the taxable gain generated from the transaction. This resulted in a decrease of approximately 4% in the companys effective tax rate below the statutory tax rate in fiscal 2003. Net income was $811 million, or $1.53 per diluted share in fiscal 2004, compared to $764 million, or $1.44 per diluted share, in fiscal 2003. Other On June 22, 2001, the company filed an amended annual report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended May 28, 2000. The filing included restated financial information for fiscal years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000. The restatement, due to accounting and conduct matters at United Agri Products, Inc. (UAP), a former subsidiary, was based upon an investigation undertaken by the company and the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors. The restatement was principally related to revenue recognition for deferred delivery sales and vendor rebates, advance vendor rebates and bad debt reserves. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a formal order of nonpublic investigation dated September 28, 2001. The company is cooperating with the SEC investigation, which relates to the UAP matters described above, as well as other aspects of the companys financial statements, including the level and application of certain of the companys reserves. The company is currently conducting discussions with the SEC Staff regarding a possible settlement of these matters. Based on discussions to date, the company established a $25 million reserve in fiscal 2004 in connection with matters related to this investigation. Due to the nature of the ongoing discussions, the company cannot predict whether the discussions will result in a settlement and is unable to determine the ultimate cost the company may incur in order to resolve this matter. Any final resolution could result in charges greater than the amount currently estimated and recognized in the companys financial statements. 2003 vs. 2002 Net Sales ($ in millions) REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2003 NET SALES FISCAL 2002 NET SALES % INCREASE/ (DECREASE) Retail Products $ 8,668 $ 8,719 (1 )% Foodservice Products 3,598 3,779 (5 )% Food Ingredients 2,204 2,105 5 % Meat Processing 2,469 7,733 (68 )% Total $ 16,939 $ 22,336 (24 )% Overall company sales declined $5.4 billion, or 24%, to $16.9 billion, primarily reflecting the impact of the fiscal 2003 fresh beef and pork divestiture. Fiscal 2002 sales included approximately $7.7 billion from the divested fresh beef and pork operations, while fiscal 2003 sales included approximately $2.5 billion. 21 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) Retail Products sales were $8.7 billion in fiscal 2003, a decline of $51 million, or less than 1%, for the year, reflecting lower sales of branded processed meat products due to lower selling prices and the divestiture of the canned seafood operations. These combined factors more than offset sales growth for several key retail brands. Net sales for the companys retail consumer branded business showed a variety of results, as sales of some of the companys most significant brands including Banquet, Healthy Choice, ACT II, Orville Redenbachers, Marie Callenders, Hebrew National, PAM and Reddi wip grew. Major brands posting sales declines for the year included Hunts, Armour, Chef Boyardee and Butterball. New products and product extensions in the popcorn, frozen meals and entrees, whipped toppings, shelf stable meals, meat snacks and egg alternative categories positively impacted the Retail Products segment sales for the year, as did theme oriented selling programs which focused on holiday, summer grilling and sporting events. The company continued to increase its investment in advertising and promotion to fuel profitable future sales growth. The company believes the brand sales increases cited above reflected a number of factors, including new product success, product quality improvements and increased marketing spending in fiscal 2003 and previous periods, while the brand sales declines cited above reflected a number of factors, including an extremely competitive environment. Foodservice Products net sales declined $181 million, or 5%, for fiscal 2003 to $3.6 million reflecting weaker results for french fries, frozen seafood, specialty meats and Mexican foods. This partly reflected soft conditions in the overall economy. The company believes that soft economic conditions negatively impacted business travel as well as consumer spending at many types of restaurants. In addition, the Foodservice Products results also reflected competitive challenges facing some of the companys major traditional quick service restaurant customers, which appeared to be losing customers to casual restaurants and other venues. Food Ingredients net sales increased $99 million, or 5%, to $2.2 billion in fiscal 2003. Sales within the segment are largely determined by input costs, which can fluctuate significantly. Sales for basic ingredients, which reflect gross profit for commodity merchandising, increased, reflecting improved margins for certain commodities, such as grain, as well as favorable results associated with the segments energy merchandising. Sales of milled ingredients flour, corn and oats, increased overall, reflecting higher selling prices, resulting from higher input costs. Sales for the other specialty ingredients operations (flavorings and seasonings) were flat compared to fiscal 2002. For fiscal 2003, net sales in the Meat Processing segment declined 68% to $2.5 billion. As cited above, the fresh beef and pork divestiture occurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2003. Accordingly, in fiscal 2003 the segment results include only 115 days of activity as compared to a full fiscal year in the prior year. Net sales in fiscal 2003 for the fresh beef and pork business were below those of the prior year comparable period due to fluctuating market prices and difficult market conditions. Gross Profit ($ in millions) REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2003 GROSS PROFIT FISCAL 2002 GROSS PROFIT % INCREASE/ (DECREASE) Retail Products $ 2,455 $ 2,353 4 % Foodservice Products 540 575 (6 )% Food Ingredients 291 347 (16 )% Meat Processing 83 286 (71 )% Total $ 3,369 $ 3,561 (5 )% The companys gross profit was $3.4 billion for fiscal 2003, compared to $3.6 billion in fiscal 2002. The decline is primarily reflective of the fresh beef and pork divestiture in the second quarter of fiscal 2003. REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2003 GROSS MARGIN FISCAL 2002 GROSS MARGIN Retail Products 28 % 27 % Foodservice Products 15 % 15 % Food Ingredients 13 % 16 % Meat Processing 3 % 4 % Total 20 % 16 % Gross margin (gross profit as a percent of net sales) improved to 20% from 16% in fiscal 2002, largely due to the fresh beef and pork divestiture, as that business had comparatively low margins. To a lesser degree, the companys manufacturing efficiency initiatives and improvement in product mix also boosted gross margins. The Retail Products segment experienced increased sales of high margin items, such as snacks and frozen dinners, and decreased sales for comparatively low margin items, such as canned seafood and cheese. Also, lower input costs for processed meats favorably impacted cost of goods sold and, therefore, gross margin. 22 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, includes General Corporate Expense SG&A expenses decreased $63 million, or 3%, to $1.9 billion for fiscal 2003. Fiscal 2002 SG&A expenses included approximately $100 million from the divested fresh beef and pork operations, while fiscal 2003 SG&A expenses included approximately $33 million. SG&A expenses were favorably impacted by $136 million, due to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, as the company was no longer required to amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. While 2003 SG&A expenses were reduced by the adoption of SFAS No. 142 and the fresh beef and pork divestiture, these were partially offset by several SG&A expenses which increased in fiscal 2003. Specifically, during fiscal 2003 the company incurred incremental advertising and promotion (approximately $56 million), fresh beef and pork divestiture closing costs (approximately $40 million) and increased employment related costs (approximately $65 million). The increased employment related costs primarily relate to increased pension and postretirement costs resulting from the company reducing the discount rate used to measure the present value of its obligations as well as reducing the assumed rate of return on plan assets. SG&A expenses were 11% of sales during fiscal 2003, as compared to 9% of sales during fiscal 2002. This 2% increase was primarily a result of the fresh beef and pork divestiture reducing net sales without a proportionate reduction in SG&A expenses, as SG&A expenses in the fresh beef and pork businesses were historically a low percentage of net sales. Operating Profit (Earnings before general corporate expense, goodwill amortization, interest expense, income taxes and equity method investment earnings) ($ in millions) REPORTING SEGMENT FISCAL 2003 OPERATING PROFIT FISCAL 2002 OPERATING PROFIT % INCREASE/ (DECREASE) Retail Products $ 1,298 $ 1,226 6 % Foodservice Products 345 364 (5 )% Food Ingredients 125 189 (34 )% Meat Processing 99 188 (47 )% Retail Products operating profit grew $72 million, or 6%, for fiscal 2003 to reach $1.3 billion, reflecting successful cost management initiatives and improved product mix. Cost management initiatives include Project Nucleus, as well as supply chain (procurement, manufacturing, shipping and warehousing) and selling and administrative expenses. Included in the supply chain initiative, the Retail Products segment is an SKU (stock keeping unit) reduction program, designed to discontinue the manufacture of certain unprofitable or marginally profitable items in order to boost overall efficiency and margins. Profit growth efforts included overall brand building programs to better connect with consumers and improve consumer appreciation of the companys products. Profit improvement initiatives also included focusing on the companys higher margin items as part of a plan to improve product mix. While margins for many major retail oriented products grew, including shelf stable grocery and refrigerated prepared foods, the most significant segment profit improvement occurred in the companys frozen foods business. In that business, the company believes that improved product quality and effective expense control contributed significantly to the profit improvement. Overall operating profit for the Foodservice Products segment declined $19 million to $345 million for fiscal 2003, reflecting a continuing difficult environment, believed by the company to be the result of a weak economy and factors negatively affecting certain major quick service restaurant customers. In addition, the company reduced the values of certain refrigerated foodservice meat inventory items during the year, which resulted in a pre tax charge of approximately $24 million. Food Ingredients operating profit declined $64 million, or 34%, to $125 million. While profits for the basic ingredients businesses grew due primarily to more favorable results in the companys energy merchandising operations, profits for milled ingredients declined due to increased input costs and profits for specialty ingredients declined due, in part, to increased competition in the garlic market. During fiscal 2003, the company also reduced the value of certain garlic inventory by $22 million, as lower cost Chinese garlic created competitive pressure. Meat Processing operating profit decreased 47% to $99 million due to the fresh beef and pork divestiture during the year, which removed those operating profits from the segments earnings base. In addition, the company settled an insurance claim relating to a beef plant fire that occurred in 2001 and realized approximately $50 million of segment operating profit. The insurance proceeds represented a recovery for the loss of facilities, inventory and related items. 23 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) Interest Expense, Net For fiscal 2003, net interest expense was $275 million, 30% below fiscal 2002 amounts, primarily due to lower interest rates, increased interest income and reduced outstanding debt amounts. Through the use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert fixed rate debt to floating rate debt, the company benefited from lower interest rates as compared to fiscal 2002. The increased interest income resulted from the company holding debt securities issued by the fresh beef and pork joint venture in which the company holds a minority interest. Also contributing to the reduced fiscal 2003 interest expense was the companys reduction of $222 million of debt with cash proceeds generated by divestitures completed during the year. Equity Method Investment Earnings Equity method investment earnings increased to $46 million in fiscal 2003 from $34 million in fiscal 2002. The increase was primarily due to the companys minority ownership in the fresh beef and pork joint venture established following the companys fresh beef and pork divestiture during fiscal 2003. Income from the companys other equity method investments, which include barley malting, potato production and grain merchandising, did not substantially change from fiscal 2002 amounts. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations In fiscal 2003, the company recognized a net of tax loss from discontinued operations of $36 million, versus income from discontinued operations of $23 million in fiscal 2002. The year over year decline reflects a fiscal 2003 pre tax charge of approximately $112 million ($69 million after tax) related to lowering asset values in connection with the pending chicken business sale. Fiscal 2003 was also negatively impacted by a weaker performance from the chicken business. For most of fiscal 2003, the chicken markets were very difficult and fresh chicken prices remained low. The company believes those prices were partly due to large supplies of chicken and other proteins, a situation made worse by weak exports of chicken to Russia due to that countrys policy changes regarding imports. This weakness in the chicken business was partially offset by significantly improved results at UAP North America, due to better customer and product mix, lower bad debt expense and reduced administrative and other operating costs as a result of cost management initiatives. Income Taxes and Net Income The effective tax rate (calculated as the ratio of income tax expense to pre tax income from continuing operations, inclusive of equity method investment earnings) of 35% for fiscal 2003 was below the 39% effective rate in fiscal 2002 due, in part to the cessation of amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Also, during fiscal 2003, the company divested its fresh beef and pork operations. As a result, the company generated foreign tax credits in excess of the taxable gain generated from the transaction. This resulted in a decrease of approximately 4% in the companys effective tax rate below the statutory tax rate in fiscal 2003 Net income was $764 million, or $1.44 per diluted share, compared to $772 million, or $1.45 per diluted share, in fiscal 2002. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources of Liquidity and Capital The companys primary financing objective is to maintain a conservative balance sheet that provides the flexibility to pursue its growth objectives. The company has historically used short term debt and its accounts receivable securitization program to finance increases in its trade working capital (accounts receivable plus inventory, less accounts payable, accrued expenses and advances on sales) needs and a combination of equity and long term debt to finance both its base trade working capital needs and its noncurrent assets. Commercial paper borrowings (usually less than 30 days maturity) are reflected in the companys consolidated balance sheets within notes payable. The company maintains back up bank lines of credit at least equal to outstanding commercial paper borrowings. The company has never used these back up lines of credit. The company is in compliance with the credit agreements financial covenants. Management believes the company will maintain its current debt credit rating for the foreseeable future, thus allowing the companys continued issuance of commercial paper. If the company were unable to access the short term commercial paper market, the company would use its bank revolving credit facility to provide liquidity. The company has in place a $1.05 billion revolving credit facility (expiring in May 2007) with major domestic and international banks. The interest rates for the revolving credit facilities are generally .30 to .35 percentage points higher than the interest rates for commercial paper. The company had availability of $400 million under its accounts receivable securitization program at fiscal year end 2004. Under this program, accounts receivable are sold without recourse at a discount, and this cost is included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Because these accounts receivable are sold without recourse to unrelated third parties, accounts receivable balances sold are excluded from the companys consolidated financial statements. As of the end of fiscal 2004, the company had no outstanding accounts receivable sold, while accounts receivable sold totaled $556 million (including amounts from discontinued operations) as of the end of fiscal 2003. 24 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) The companys overall level of interest bearing debt totaled $5.7 billion at the end of fiscal 2004, compared to $5.9 billion as of the end of fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2004, the company repaid $515 million of debt. This was largely offset by the increase in long term debt resulting from the companys adoption of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which required the consolidation of certain variable interest entities from which the company leases buildings and transportation equipment. This also required the deconsolidation of ConAgra Capital L.C., an indirectly controlled subsidiary of the company which had previously issued mandatorily redeemable preferred securities and entered into loan agreements with the company having similar terms as the preferred securities. The adoption of FIN No. 46R resulted in the addition of $419 million of long term debt and $25 million of minority interest and the reduction of $175 million of preferred securities of subsidiary company to the companys balance sheet. As of the end of both fiscal 2004 and 2003, the companys senior debt ratings were BBB+ (Fitch), Baa1 (Moodys) and BBB+ (Standard & Poors), all investment grade ratings. The company also has a shelf registration under which it could issue from time to time up to $4 billion in debt securities. Over the last two fiscal years, the company has divested its major commodity operations, such as fresh beef and pork, cheese processing, canned seafood, chicken processing and agricultural chemical distribution. The company received debt and equity interests as part of the proceeds for certain of those businesses. The company expects to sell or otherwise monetize those items in the future, subject to contractual conditions. As of fiscal year end 2004, the company has the following investments and other interests related to these transactions: approximately $315 million of net assets of the cattle feeding venture, approximately $150 million of subordinated notes receivable plus accrued interest from the fresh beef and pork venture, approximately $197 million of equity interest in the fresh beef and pork venture, approximately $34 million of UAP preferred securities, and approximately 25.4 million shares of Pilgrims Pride Corporation (valued at $246 million at the time of the transaction with a total carrying value of $392 million at the end of fiscal 2004). The Pilgrims Pride Corporation shares are contractually restricted such that the company cannot sell any portion of the shares for one year from the date of the chicken business divestiture and can sell no more than 8.47 million shares in any twelve month period, unless such restrictions are waived by Pilgrims Pride. As of fiscal year end 2004, 8.47 million shares are classified as available for sale as these shares may be sold by the company within twelve months. The available for sale shares are stated at fair value based on quoted market prices with unrealized gains of $146 million included in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The remaining 16.93 million shares are accounted for at cost. Cash Flows In fiscal 2004, the company used $79 million of cash, which was the net impact of $581 million generated from operating activities, $684 million generated from investing activities and $1.3 billion used in financing activities. Cash generated from operating activities of continuing operations totaled $708 million for fiscal 2004 as compared to $966 million generated in fiscal 2003. The decreased cash flow was primarily due to a decrease of $470 million in amounts sold under the accounts receivable securitization program, partially offset by the fiscal 2003 contributions to the companys pension plans of $233 million. Cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations was approximately $127 million in fiscal 2004, as compared to $291 million in fiscal 2003. Cash flow from operating activities is one of the companys primary sources of liquidity. Cash generated from investing activities totaled $684 million for fiscal 2004, versus cash generated from investing activities of $558 million in fiscal 2003. Investing activities for fiscal 2004 consisted primarily of proceeds of approximately $935 million from the divestitures of the chicken business, UAP North America and the Spanish feed business, partially offset by capital expenditures of $352 million. Cash used in financing activities totaled $1.3 billion in fiscal 2004, as compared to cash used of $703 million in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2004, the company repaid debt of $515 million, paid dividends of $537 million and repurchased 15.3 million shares of its outstanding common stock for $419 million. During fiscal 2003, the company repaid debt of $222 million and paid dividends of $509 million. The company estimates its capital expenditures in fiscal 2005 will be approximately $475 million, reflecting increased investment in information systems and the logistics network. Management believes that existing cash balances, cash flows from operations, existing credit facilities and access to capital markets will provide sufficient liquidity to meet its working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, additional share repurchases and payment of anticipated quarterly dividends. 25 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The company uses off balance sheet arrangements (e.g., operating leases) where the economics and sound business principles warrant their use. The company periodically enters into guarantees and other similar arrangements as part of transactions in the ordinary course of business. These are described further in Obligations and Commitments below. The company has used off balance sheet arrangements in connection with the securitization and sale of trade receivables generated in the ordinary course of business. As of May 30, 2004, the company had agreements to sell interests in pools of receivables in an amount not to exceed $400 million at any one time. As of the end of fiscal 2004, the company had no outstanding accounts receivable sold, whereas accounts receivable sold totaled $556 million as of the end of fiscal 2003. As a result of adopting FIN No. 46R, the company has consolidated the assets and liabilities of several entities from which it leases property, plant and equipment. The company has also deconsolidated ConAgra Capital, L.C., an indirectly controlled subsidiary of the company. Due to the adoption of FIN No. 46R, the company recorded an increase to property, plant and equipment of $221 million, an increase to long term debt of $419 million, an increase to other assets of $46 million, an increase to other noncurrent liabilities of $25 million and a decrease in preferred securities of subsidiary company of $175 million. The company has no other material obligations arising out of variable interests with unconsolidated entities. OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS As part of its ongoing operations, the company enters into arrangements that obligate the company to make future payments under contracts such as lease agreements, debt agreements and unconditional purchase obligations (i.e., obligations to transfer funds in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices, such as take or pay contracts). The unconditional purchase obligation arrangements are entered into by the company in its normal course of business in order to ensure adequate levels of sourced product are available to the company. Of these items, capital lease and debt obligations, which total $5.7 billion, are currently recognized as liabilities in the companys consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease obligations and unconditional purchase obligations, which total $884 million, are not recognized as liabilities in the companys consolidated balance sheet, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Payments in excess of debt service requirements to be made to variable interest entities, which have been consolidated under the requirements of FIN No. 46R, are included in operating lease obligations. A summary of the companys contractual obligations at the end of fiscal 2004 is as follows (including obligations of discontinued operations): (in millions) PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD CONTRACTUAL LESS THAN AFTER OBLIGATIONS TOTAL 1 YEAR 2 3 YEARS 4 5 YEARS 5 YEARS Long Term Debt $ 5,671.9 $ 382.4 $ 1,235.5 $ 36.5 $ 4,017.5 Lease Obligations 560.0 90.4 146.7 137.9 185.0 Purchase Obligations 323.8 125.0 102.9 48.7 47.2 Total $ 6,555.7 $ 597.8 $ 1,485.1 $ 223.1 $ 4,249.7 The companys total obligations of approximately $6.6 billion reflect a decrease of approximately $439 million from the companys 2003 fiscal year end. The decrease was primarily a result of the repayment of certain long term debt during fiscal 2004, partially offset by the addition of $419 million of debt associated with the adoption of FIN No. 46R. As part of its ongoing operations, the company also enters into arrangements that obligate the company to make future cash payments only upon the occurrence of a future event (e.g., guarantee debt or lease payments of a third party should the third party be unable to perform). In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the following commercial commitments are not recognized as liabilities in the companys consolidated balance sheet. A summary of the companys commitments, including commitments associated with equity method investments, as of the end of fiscal 2004, is as follows (including obligations of discontinued operations): (in millions) AMOUNT OF COMMITMENT EXPIRATION PER PERIOD OTHER COMMERCIAL LESS THAN AFTER COMMITMENTS TOTAL 1 YEAR 2 3 YEARS 4 5 YEARS 5 YEARS Guarantees $ 68.7 $ 7.9 $ 15.2 $ 20.0 $ 25.6 Other Commitments 6.2 2.2 4.0 Total $ 74.9 $ 10.1 $ 19.2 $ 20.0 $ 25.6 The companys total commitments of approximately $75 million include approximately $46 million in guarantees and other commitments the company has made on behalf of the companys fresh beef and pork joint venture. As part of the fresh beef and pork transaction, the company assigned a hog purchase contract to the new joint venture and the venture has indemnified the company for all liabilities under the contract. The company has guaranteed the performance of the fresh beef and pork joint venture with respect to the hog purchase contract. The hog purchase contract requires the fresh beef and pork joint venture to purchase a minimum of approximately 1.2 million hogs annually through 2014. 26 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) The contract stipulates minimum price commitments, based in part on market prices and in certain circumstances, also includes price adjustments based on certain inputs. TRADING ACTIVITIES The company accounts for certain contracts (e.g., physical commodity purchase/sale contracts and derivative contracts) at fair value. The company considers a portion of these contracts to be its trading activities; specifically, those contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and its related amendment, SFAS No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities (collectively SFAS No. 133). The table below summarizes the changes in trading assets and liabilities for fiscal 2004: (in millions) Net asset outstanding as of May 25, 2003, at fair value $ 37.4 Contracts settled during the period1 12.8 Changes in fair value of contracts outstanding as of May 30, 20042 (23.6 ) Changes attributable to changes in valuation techniques and assumptions Net asset outstanding as of May 30, 2004, at fair value $ 26.6 1 Includes contracts outstanding at May 25, 2003 and contracts entered into and settled during fiscal 2004. 2 Includes option premiums paid and received. The following table represents the fair value and scheduled maturity dates of contracts outstanding as of May 30, 2004: FAIR VALUE OF CONTRACTS AS OF MAY 30, 2004 NET ASSET / (LIABILITY) (in millions) SOURCE OF FAIR VALUE MATURITY LESS THAN 1 YEAR MATURITY 13 YEARS TOTAL FAIR VALUE Prices actively quoted (i.e., exchange traded contracts) $ 29.0 $ 1.0 $ 30.0 Prices provided by other external sources (i.e., non exchange traded contracts) (3.2 ) (0.2 ) (3.4 ) Prices based on other valuation models (i.e., non exchange traded contracts) Total fair value $ 25.8 $ 0.8 $ 26.6 In order to minimize the risk of loss associated with non exchange traded transactions with counterparties, the company utilizes established credit limits and performs ongoing counterparty credit evaluations. The above tables exclude commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, including physical contracts to buy or sell commodities at agreed upon fixed prices, as well as derivative contracts (e.g., futures and options) used primarily to hedge an existing asset or liability (e.g., inventory) or an anticipated transaction (e.g., purchase of inventory). The use of such contracts is not considered by the company to be trading activities as these contracts are considered either normal purchase and sale contracts or hedging contracts. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The process of preparing financial statements requires the use of estimates on the part of management. The estimates used by management are based on the companys historical experiences combined with managements understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the companys accounting estimates are considered critical as they are both important to the portrayal of the companys financial condition and results and require significant or complex judgment on the part of management. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates considered critical by management of the company. The companys Audit Committee has reviewed the development, selection and disclosure of the critical accounting estimates. Marketing Costs The company incurs certain costs to promote its products through marketing programs which include advertising, retailer incentives and consumer incentives. The company expenses each of these types of marketing costs in accordance with applicable authoritative accounting literature. The judgment required in determining when marketing costs are incurred can be significant. For volume based incentives provided to retailers, management must continually assess the likelihood of the retailer achieving the specified targets. Similarly, for consumer coupons, management must estimate the level at which coupons will be redeemed by consumers in the future. Estimates made by management in accounting for marketing costs are based primarily on the companys historical experience with marketing programs with consideration given to current circumstances and industry trends. As these factors change, managements estimates could change and the company could recognize different amounts of marketing costs over different periods of time. 27 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) Income Taxes The company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The company recognizes current tax liabilities and assets based on an estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current year for each of the jurisdictions in which the company transacts business. As part of the determination of its current tax liability, management exercises considerable judgment in evaluating positions taken by the company in its tax returns. The company has established reserves for probable tax exposures. These reserves, included in current tax liabilities, represent the companys estimate of amounts expected to be paid, which the company adjusts over time as more information regarding tax audits becomes available. The company also recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences (e.g., book depreciation versus tax depreciation). If appropriate, the company recognizes valuation allowances to reduce such deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be ultimately realized, based on the companys assessment of future taxable income, including the consideration of available tax planning strategies. The calculation of current and deferred tax assets (including valuation allowances) and liabilities requires management to apply significant judgment related to the application of complex tax laws, changes in tax laws or related interpretations, uncertainties related to the outcomes of tax audits and changes in the companys operations or other facts and circumstances. Further, management must continually monitor changes in these factors. Changes in such factors may result in changes to management estimates and could require the company to adjust its tax assets and liabilities and record additional income tax expense or benefits. Environmental Liabilities Environmental liabilities are accrued when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the associated amounts can be reasonably estimated. Management works with independent third party specialists in order to effectively assess the companys environmental liabilities. Management estimates the companys environmental liabilities based on evaluation of investigatory studies, extent of required cleanup, the known volumetric contribution of the company and other potentially responsible parties and its experience in remediating sites. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing governmental or other external determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of cleanup. Managements estimate as to its potential liability is independent of any potential recovery of insurance proceeds or indemnification arrangements. Insurance companies and other indemnitors are notified of any potential claims and periodically updated as to the general status of known claims. The company does not discount its environmental liabilities as the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. To the extent that there are changes in the evaluation factors identified above, managements estimate of environmental liabilities may also change. Employment Related Benefits The company incurs certain employment related expenses associated with pensions, postretirement health care benefits and workers compensation. In order to measure the expense associated with these employment related benefits, management must make a variety of estimates including discount rates used to measure the present value of certain liabilities, assumed rates of return on assets set aside to fund these expenses, compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, anticipated health care costs and employee accidents incurred but not yet reported to the company. The estimates used by management are based on the companys historical experience as well as current facts and circumstances. The company uses third party specialists to assist management in appropriately measuring the expense associated with these employment related benefits. Different estimates used by management could result in the company recognizing different amounts of expense over different periods of time. Impairment of Long Lived Assets (including property, plant and equipment), Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets In accordance with applicable accounting literature, the company reduces the carrying amounts of long lived assets, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets to their fair values when the fair value of such assets is determined to be less than their carrying amounts (i.e., assets are deemed to be impaired). Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis, which requires the company to estimate the future cash flows anticipated to be generated by the particular asset(s) being tested for impairment as well as select a discount rate to measure the present value of the anticipated cash flows. When determining future cash flow estimates, the company considers historical results adjusted to reflect current and anticipated operating conditions. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment by the company in such areas as future economic conditions, industry specific conditions, product pricing and necessary capital expenditures. The use of different assumptions or estimates for future cash flows could produce different impairment amounts (or none at all) for long lived assets, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. 28 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS ConAgra Foods enters into many lease agreements for land, buildings and equipment at competitive market rates, and some of the lease arrangements are with Opus Corporation or its affiliates. A director of ConAgra Foods is a beneficial owner, officer and director of Opus Corporation. The agreements relate to the leasing of land and buildings for ConAgra Foods. ConAgra Foods occupies the buildings pursuant to long term leases with Opus Corporation and its affiliates, some of which contain various termination rights and purchase options. Leases effective in fiscal 2004 required annual lease payments by ConAgra Foods of $21 million. As a result of adopting FIN No. 46R, the company has consolidated certain of the Opus affiliates from which it leases property, plant and equipment. These leases were previously accounted for as operating leases. Opus Corporation or its affiliates were paid $41 million for construction work during fiscal 2004 on properties leased by ConAgra Foods from third parties. Opus Corporation had revenues in excess of $1 billion in 2003. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report, including Managements Discussion & Analysis, contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on managements current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Readers of this report should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the companys actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, company performance and financial results, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the companys businesses and other risks described in the companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward looking statements included in this report which speak only as of the date of this report. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK The principal market risks affecting the company are exposures to price fluctuations of commodity and energy inputs, interest rates and foreign currencies. These fluctuations impact raw material costs of all reporting segments, as well as the companys trading activities. Commodities The company purchases commodity inputs such as wheat, corn, oats, soybean meal, soybean oil, meat, dairy products, sugar, energy and packaging materials, to be used in its operations. These commodities are subject to price fluctuations that may create gross margin risk. The company enters into commodity hedges to manage this price risk using physical forward contracts or derivative instruments. ConAgra Foods has policies governing the hedging instrument its businesses may use. These policies include limiting the dollar risk exposure for each of its businesses. The company also monitors the amount of associated counter party credit risk for all non exchange traded transactions. In addition, the company purchases and sells certain commodities, such as wheat, corn, soybeans, soybean meal, soybean oil, oats and energy, in its trading operations. The companys trading activities are limited in terms of maximum dollar exposure, as measured by a dollar at risk methodology and monitored to ensure compliance. The following table presents one measure of market risk exposure using sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis is the measurement of potential loss of fair value resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices. Actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. In practice, as markets move, the company actively manages its risk and adjusts hedging strategies as appropriate. Fair value was determined using quoted market prices and was based on the companys net derivative position by commodity at each quarter end during the fiscal year. The market risk exposure analysis excludes the underlying commodity positions that are being hedged. The commodities hedged have a high inverse correlation to price changes of the derivative commodity instrument. Effect of 10% Change in Market Prices: (in millions) 2004 2003 Processing Activities Grains/Food High $ 18.3 $ 38.2 Low 2.1 25.2 Average 11.3 32.8 Meats High 1.0 17.1 Low 0.1 Average 0.6 5.9 Energy High 9.7 14.3 Low 8.7 Average 3.9 11.8 Trading Activities Grains High 35.7 21.7 Low 21.0 9.9 Average 28.9 16.2 Meats High 3.0 6.2 Low 1.5 2.1 Average 2.2 4.1 Energy High 7.5 13.4 Low Average 1.9 6.6 Interest Rates The company primarily uses interest rate swaps to manage the effect of interest rate changes on a portion of its existing debt and forecasted debt balances. The company enters into such interest rate swaps to take advantage of historically low short term rates, while continuing to maintain long term financing. As of May 25, 2003, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements recognized in prepaid 29 Managements Discussion and Analysis (continued) expenses and other current assets was approximately $220 million, while the fair value of interest rate swap agreements recognized in other accrued liabilities was approximately $52 million. All of the companys interest rate swaps were liquidated in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 (see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements). As of May 30, 2004 and May 25, 2003, the fair value of the companys fixed rate debt was estimated at $6.2 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively, based on current market rates primarily provided by outside investment advisors. As of May 30, 2004 and May 25, 2003, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would decrease the fair value of the companys fixed rate debt by approximately $336 million and $428 million, respectively, while a one percentage point decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of the companys fixed rate debt by approximately $387 million and $490 million, respectively. With respect to floating rate debt, a one percentage point change in interest rates would have impacted net interest expense by approximately $1 million and $11 million in fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. Foreign Operations In order to reduce exposures related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the company may enter into forward exchange or option contracts for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency for certain of its processing and trading operations. This activity primarily relates to hedging against foreign currency risk in purchasing inventory, capital equipment, sales of finished goods and future settlement of foreign denominated assets and liabilities. The following table presents one measure of market risk exposure using sensitivity analysis for the companys processing and trading operations. Sensitivity analysis is the measurement of potential loss of fair value resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in exchange rates. Actual changes in exchange rates may differ from hypothetical changes. Fair value was determined using quoted exchange rates and was based on the companys net foreign currency position at each quarter end during the fiscal year. The market risk exposure analysis excludes the underlying foreign denominated transactions that are being hedged. The currencies hedged have a high inverse correlation to exchange rate changes of the foreign currency derivative instrument. Effect of 10% Change in Exchange Rates: (in millions) 2004 2003 Processing Businesses High $ 16.1 $ 26.8 Low 10.2 8.8 Average 13.8 18.1 Trading Businesses High $ 13.2 $ 3.4 Low 3.8 0.6 Average 8.7 1.5 30 
 
