FILE:BEN/BEN-8K-20041221170510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 21 2004 FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9318 13-2670991 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, California 94403 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (650) 312-3000 ---------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report): Not Applicable Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (See General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS - ----------------------- On December 15, 2004, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") approved restricted stock awards ("Award") granting common stock ("Stock") of the Company under the Company's 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 USIP") to certain of the Company's executive officers. Each of the following executive officers of the Company received the following number of shares of Stock: Gregory E. Johnson: 15,625 shares; and Martin L. Flanagan: 15,625 shares. The Company has entered into a Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the "RSA Agreement") with each of the executive officers listed above. Each Award awarded to such executive officers of the Company has an effective grant date of December 15, 2004, and shall vest upon the achievement of certain performance goals as described in the vesting schedule in the Notice of Restricted Stock Award ("Notice of Award"), and is subject to acceleration or forfeiture under certain events described in the RSA Agreement. A copy of the 2002 USIP was filed as Exhibit 10.68 to the Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2002. A copy of the form of the RSA Agreement and Notice of Award under the 2002 USIP is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1. Each of the foregoing is incorporated herein by reference. The following is a summary of the principal terms of the RSA Agreement and Notice of Award, which are qualified in their entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1: RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD. - ----------------------- The Company issues to participants, including the executive officers (the "Participant") shares of Stock as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner as set forth in the RSA Agreement. All shares of Stock issued are deemed to be issued to Participant as fully paid and non assessable shares, and Participant has all rights of a shareholder, including the right to vote, to receive dividends (including stock dividends), to participate in stock splits or other recapitalizations, and to exchange such shares in a merger, consolidation or other reorganization. TRANSFER RESTRICTION. No Stock issued to Participant may be sold, transferred by gift, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise transferred or disposed of by Participant prior to the date on which it becomes vested. Participant is not precluded from exchanging the Stock awarded pursuant to a cash or stock tender offer, merger, reorganization or consolidation. Any securities (including stock dividends and stock splits) received with respect to shares of Stock, which are not yet vested are subject to the RSA Agreement in the same manner and become fully vested at the same time as the Stock with respect to which such additional securities were issued.
VESTING. Participant's interest in the Stock awarded becomes vested and nonforfeitable in accordance with the vesting schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains continuous status as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. If Participant ceases to maintain continuous status as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability, all shares of Stock to the extent not yet vested on the date Participant ceases to be a full-time employee are forfeited by Participant. If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's continuous status as an employee as a result of disability while a full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, Participant's interest in all shares of Stock awarded become fully vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that the Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which the Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long term disability policy. Subject to the Participant's continued employment with the Company and other limitations set forth in the Notice of Award, the RSA Agreement and the 2002 USIP, the Stock granted to the executive officers listed above shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: ONE-THIRD VESTING - ----------------- 5,209 Shares granted under the Award (the "First-Third Vesting Shares") shall vest with respect to the first fiscal year of the Company that occurs on or before the fiscal year ending on September 30, 2007 (the "2007 Fiscal Year") in which pre-tax operating income for such fiscal year is at least 15% greater than pre-tax operating income for the fiscal year of the Company ended on September 30, 2004 (the "2004 Fiscal Year"). TWO-THIRDS VESTING - ------------------ 5,208 Shares granted under the Award (the "Second-Third Vesting Shares") shall vest with respect to the first fiscal year of the Company that occurs on or before the 2007 Fiscal Year in which pre-tax operating income for such fiscal year is at least 32.25% greater than pre-tax operating income for the 2004 Fiscal Year. In the event the First-Third Vesting Shares have not previously vested, then a total of 10,417 Shares (consisting of the First-Third Vesting Shares and the Second-Third Vesting Shares) shall vest with respect to the first fiscal year of the Company that occurs on or before the 2007 Fiscal Year in which pre-tax operating income for such fiscal year is at least 32.25% greater than pre-tax operating income for the 2004 Fiscal Year. 100% VESTING - ------------ The remaining 5,208 shares granted under the Award (the "Final-Third Vesting Shares") plus the First-Third Vesting Shares and the Second-Third Vesting Shares (if not already vested) shall vest upon the first fiscal year of the Company that occurs on or before the 2007 Fiscal Year in which pre-tax operating income for such fiscal year is at least 52.09% greater than pre-tax operating income for the 2004 Fiscal Year.
FORFEITURE - ---------- If by the 2007 Fiscal Year, pre-tax operating income for any fiscal year between the 2004 Fiscal Year and the 2007 Fiscal Year has not been at least 15% greater than pre-tax operating income for the 2004 Fiscal Year, all of the Shares granted under the Award shall be forfeited back to the Company and none of the Shares shall vest. If by the 2007 Fiscal Year, pre-tax operating income for any fiscal year between the 2004 Fiscal Year and the 2007 Fiscal Year has been greater than 15% but has not been at least 32.25% greater than pre-tax operating income for the 2004 Fiscal Year, then the Second-Third Vesting Shares and the Final Third Vesting Shares shall be forfeited back to the Company. If by the 2007 Fiscal Year, pre-tax operating income for any fiscal year of the Company between the 2004 Fiscal Year and the 2007 Fiscal Year is not at least 52.09% greater than pre-tax operating income for the 2004 Fiscal Year, the Final-Third Vesting Shares shall be forfeited back to the Company. TIME OF VESTING/FORFEITURE - -------------------------- The vesting, if any, of the Shares granted under the Award as a result of the achievement of the foregoing performance criteria will be effective on the later of (i) the December 15 that follows the end of the fiscal year during which the performance goal is achieved or (ii) ten (10) business days after the release of the annual financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year. The forfeiture of all or any of the Shares granted pursuant to this Award as a result of the failure to achieve any or all of the foregoing performance criteria will be effective on December 15, 2007 or ten (10) business days after the release of the annual financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2007 Fiscal Year. DEFINITION OF PRE-TAX OPERATING INCOME - -------------------------------------- "Pre-tax operating income" with respect to any fiscal year is defined as total operating revenue less total operating expenses determined on a consolidated basis reported in the annual financial statements as "Operating Income" included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits: EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION ----------- ----------- 10.1 Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement and Notice of Restricted Stock Award under the Company's 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC. (Registrant) Date: December 21, 2004 /S/ BARBARA J. GREEN --------------------- Barbara J. Green Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION ----------- ----------- 10.1 Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement and Notice of Restricted Stock Award under the Company's 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan

EXHIBIT 10.1 FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC. 2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT This Restricted Stock Award Agreement (this "Agreement") is made as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Award (the "Notice of Award") between Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and the Participant named therein ("Participant"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), authorizing the grant of common stock of the Company ("Stock") to eligible individuals in connection with the performance of services for the Company and its Subsidiaries, as defined in said 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference (capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement have the meaning set forth in the 2002 Plan); and WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the efforts of Participant on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries and desires to motivate Participant in Participant's work and provide an inducement to remain in the service of the Company and its Subsidiaries; and WHEREAS, the Company has determined that it would be to the advantage and in the interest of the Company and its shareholders to award the Stock provided for in this Agreement to Participant, subject to restrictions, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 1. RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD. The Company is issuing to Participant shares of Stock as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in this Agreement. Such shares are being issued in book entry form and maintained on the books of the Bank of New York, the Company's transfer agent, or any successor thereto. All shares of Stock issued hereunder shall be deemed issued to Participant as fully paid and non assessable shares, and Participant shall have all rights of a shareholder with respect thereto, including the right to vote, to receive dividends (including stock dividends), to participate in stock splits or other recapitalizations, and to exchange such shares in a merger, consolidation or other reorganization. The Company shall pay any applicable stock transfer taxes. Participant hereby acknowledges that Participant is acquiring the Stock issued hereunder for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof, and that Participant does not intend to subdivide Participant's interest in the Stock with any other person.
2. TRANSFER RESTRICTION. (a) No Stock issued to Participant hereunder shall be sold, transferred by gift, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise transferred or disposed of by Participant prior to the date on which it becomes vested under paragraph 3. This paragraph shall not preclude Participant from exchanging the Stock awarded hereunder pursuant to a cash or stock tender offer, merger, reorganization or consolidation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any securities (including stock dividends and stock splits) received with respect to shares of Stock which are not yet vested under paragraph 3 shall be subject to the provisions of this Agreement in the same manner and shall become fully vested at the same time as the Stock with respect to which such additional securities were issued. (b) Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject the Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws. 3. VESTING. (a) Participant's interest in the Stock awarded under paragraph 1 shall become vested and nonforfeitable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains continuous status as an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary. Upon vesting, the Company shall, within thirty (30) days of such vesting, deliver to Participant the certificates evidencing the nonforfeitable shares, provided the withholding requirements of paragraph 4 have been satisfied. (b) If Participant ceases to maintain continuous status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability (as described in subparagraph (c)), all shares of Stock to the extent not yet vested under subparagraph (a) on the date Participant ceases to be a full-time employee shall be forfeited by Participant without payment of any consideration to Participant therefor. Any shares of Stock so forfeited shall be canceled and returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares, to be held for future distributions by the Company's 2002 Plan. (c) If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's continuous status as an Employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while a full-time employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, Participant's interest in all shares of Stock awarded hereunder shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which the Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long term disability policy.
4. WITHHOLDING OF TAXES. (a) GENERAL. Participant is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by Participant in connection with the Stock awarded, regardless of any action the Company or any of its Subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Stock awarded. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Stock awarded or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Stock. The Company and its Subsidiaries do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the award to reduce or eliminate Participant's tax liability. (b) Payment of Withholding Taxes. Prior to any event in connection with the Stock awarded (E.G., vesting) that the Company determines may result in any tax withholding obligation, whether United States federal, state, local or non-U.S., including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Participant must arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. (i) BY SHARE WITHHOLDING. Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, Participant authorizes the Company (in the exercise of its sole discretion) to withhold from those shares of Stock issuable to Participant the whole number of shares sufficient to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Participant acknowledges that the withheld shares may not be sufficient to satisfy Participant's minimum Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Participant agrees to pay to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the withholding of shares described above. Share withholding will generally be used to satisfy the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation of individuals subject to the short-swing profit restrictions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. (ii) BY SALE OF SHARES. Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, Participant's acceptance of the Stock awarded constitutes Participant's instruction and authorization to the Company and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose to sell on Participant's behalf a whole number of shares from those shares of Stock issuable to Participant as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Such shares will be sold on the day such Tax Withholding Obligation arises (E.G., a vesting date) or as soon thereafter as practicable. Participant will be responsible for all broker's fees and other costs of sale, and Participant agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed Participant's minimum Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to Participant. Participant acknowledges that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to
satisfy Participant's minimum Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Participant agrees to pay to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of shares described above. (iii) BY CHECK, WIRE TRANSFER OR OTHER MEANS. At any time not less than five (5) business days (or such fewer number of days as determined by the Committee or its designee) before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (E.G., a vesting date), Participant may elect to satisfy Participant's minimum Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation by (x) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (y) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, or (z) such other means as specified from time to time by the Committee or its designee. 5. SUCCESSORS. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Nothing contained in the 2002 Plan or this Agreement shall be interpreted as imposing any liability on the Company or the Committee in favor of any Participant or any purchaser or other transferee of Stock with respect to any loss, cost or expense which such Participant or purchaser may incur in connection with, or arising out of any transaction involving any shares of Stock subject to the 2002 Plan or this Agreement. 6. INTEGRATION. The terms of the 2002 Plan and this Agreement are intended by the Company and Participant to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to the shares of Stock and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement. The Company and Participant further intend that the 2002 Plan and this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of their terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any arbitration, judicial, administrative or other legal proceeding involving the 2002 Plan or this Agreement. Accordingly, the 2002 Plan and this Agreement contain the entire understanding between the parties and supersede all prior oral, written and implied agreements, understandings, commitments and practices among the parties. 7. WAIVERS. Any failure to enforce any terms or conditions of the 2002 Plan or this Agreement by the Company or by Participant shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power for all or any other times. 8. SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS. If any provision of the 2002 Plan or this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof; and the 2002 Plan and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if neither of them included such provision. 9. COMMITTEE DECISIONS CONCLUSIVE. All decisions of the Committee arising under the 2002 Plan or under this Agreement shall be conclusive.
10. MANDATORY ARBITRATION. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, including its meaning or interpretation, shall be resolved solely by arbitration before an arbitrator selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The location for the arbitration shall be in the county or comparable jurisdiction of Participant's employment. Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Each party shall pay an equal share of the arbitrator's fees. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph are intended by Participant and Company to be exclusive for all purposes and applicable to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement. The arbitrator who hears and decides any dispute shall have jurisdiction and authority only to award compensatory damages to make whole a person or entity sustaining foreseeable economic damages, and, shall not have jurisdiction and authority to make any other award of any type, including without limitation, punitive damages, unforeseeable economic damage, damages for pain, suffering or emotional distress, or any other kind or form of damages. The remedy, if any, awarded by the arbitrator shall be the sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute which is subject to arbitration under this paragraph. 11. DELAWARE LAW. The 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent not preempted by the federal laws of the United States of America.
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC. 2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN NOTICE OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD -------------------------------- Participant's Name: Address: Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes your efforts and contributions on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries and, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements, has awarded you shares of Company Common Stock as described in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement") and this Notice of Restricted Stock Award (collectively, the "Award") as follows: Award Number ------------------------------------- Award Date ------------------------------------- Grant Price Per Share Total Number of Shares Awarded (the "Shares") ------------------------------------- VESTING SCHEDULE ---------------- [Insert Vesting Information] Participant acknowledges and agrees that the shares subject to this Award shall vest only by Participant continuing employment at the will of the Company (not through the act of being hired, being granted this Award or acquiring shares hereunder). Participant further acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Award nor in the Company's 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), which is incorporated herein by this reference, affects the Company's right to terminate, or to change the terms of, the Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause. Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject the Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
Participant understands that the Award is subject to Participant's consent to access the 2002 Plan prospectus, the 2002 Plan, the Award Agreement (collectively, the "2002 Plan Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet. By signing below and accepting the grant of the Award, you: (i) consent to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the 2002 Plan Documents via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represent that you have access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledge receipt of electronic copies, or that you are already in possession of paper copies, of the 2002 Plan Documents and the Company's [2003] Annual Report; and (iv) acknowledge that you are familiar with and accept the Award subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan Documents. Participant may receive paper copies of the 2002 Plan Documents by requesting them in writing addressed to Stock Administration at One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due to me pursuant to this Award. Please note that this designation applies only to this Award and not to any prior awards or grants under the 2002 Plan. NAME: (Please print): -------------------------------------------- (First) (Middle) (Last) SSN/SIN/National Tax ID: -------------------------------------------- ADDRESS: -------------------------------------------- (Please include Country and Zip/Postal Code) TELEPHONE NO.: -------------------------------------------- (Please include Country and/or Area Code) RELATIONSHIP: -------------------------------------------- PERCENTAGE: -------------------------------------------- (Enter the % you wish your beneficiary(ies) to receive)
By your electronic signature and by the acceptance of the Company's representative below, you and the Company agree that the Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the 2002 Plan and the Award Agreement. PARTICIPANT: FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC. - --------------------------- -------------------------------- Participant's Name Barbara J. Green, Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary


