FILE:BEN/BEN-8K-20051103134339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 3, 2005
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (650) 312-3000
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
On September 22, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") approved an amendment and restatement of the Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (the "AIP") principally to (a) provide that the allocation of actual amounts to the award pools under the AIP for a plan year and the determination and payment of actual incentive awards for a plan year may be made in advance of the completion of such plan year and (b) make various conforming and other technical changes to the AIP. The amendment and restatement of the AIP was not subject to the approval of the stockholders of the Company, nor was the amendment and restatement determined to be material to the Company. A copy of the AIP, as amended and restated on September 22, 2005, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Restricted Fund Unit Awards
.
 
Pursuant to the terms of Section 5.1 of the AIP, incentive awards may be paid in cash or, among other things, in shares of investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds, subject to restrictions and vesting determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board to be appropriate. Accordingly, the Company has adopted standard forms of a Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award and Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement for awards to certain investment management personnel and, potentially, others, copies of which forms are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference ("Standard IM Award Documents"), and forms of a Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award and Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement in the case of awards made to certain other investment management personnel and, potentially, others, copies of which forms are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference ("Other IM Award Documents"). The forms of Other IM Award Documents differ from the forms of Standard IM Award Documents with regard to the timing of the vesting of restricted fund units credited as a result of dividends paid from time to time with respect to the shares of the applicable class of a series of an investment company in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds issuable for each restricted fund unit.
 
The following is a summary of the principal terms of the forms of Standard IM Award Documents and Other IM Award Documents, which are qualified in their entirety by reference to Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3, respectively:
 
The Company may issue to participants, including executive officers (hereinafter, each a "Participant"), restricted fund units ("Units") as set forth in the Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in the Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement.
 
Transfer Restrictions
. The Units may not be transferred by Participant in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may designate a beneficiary of the Units in the event of Participant's death. The terms of the Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant.
 
Vesting
. The Units shall become vested in accordance with the vesting schedule in the Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award so long as Participant maintains a continuous status as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. If Participant ceases to maintain a continuous status as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability, all Units to the extent not
 
 
yet vested on the date Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Participant. If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's continuous status as an employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the Units awarded shall become fully vested as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
In the event of a proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company or of a merger or corporate combination of the Company (a "Transaction") in which the successor entity does not agree to assume the award of restricted fund units or substitute an equivalent award, the Company shall make a determination as to the equitable treatment of the award and shall notify Participant of such treatment no later than ten (10) days prior to the consummation of such proposed Transaction. In the event the award is not assumed in connection with a Transaction, the award will terminate upon the consummation of such proposed Transaction.
 
Conversion Of Units And Issuance Of Fund Shares
. Upon each vesting date, the value of one share of the applicable class of a series of an investment company in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds ("fund") shall be issuable for each Unit that vests on such date (the "Shares"), subject to the terms and provisions of the AIP, the Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award and the Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement. Any fractional Unit that vests on a particular date shall be converted into the value of a fractional Share. Thereafter, the Company will transfer to a broker and/or dealer or equivalent entity authorized to effect transactions in such fund shares for the account of others (the "Broker/Dealer") in the jurisdiction of Participant's employment, or cause such Broker/Dealer to receive or otherwise credit, the aggregate vested value of such Shares for the benefit of such Participant. The Broker/Dealer will then cause the Shares to be acquired on behalf of Participant and, thereafter, the Broker/Dealer will transfer such Shares to Participant. Any Shares in a fund shall be advisor class shares or equivalent, if available; otherwise, they shall be Class A shares or equivalent or, if unavailable, the Company shall make a determination as to the class of Shares. Notwithstanding the above, the Company may, in its discretion, pay to Participant all or a portion of any vested Units in cash in an amount equal to the vested value of the Shares. The Shares or equivalent cash payment will be issued to Participant as soon as practicable after the vesting date, but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is two and a half (2) months from the end of (i) Participant's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date.
 
In the event any one or more of the funds ceases to exist, the shares of such fund represented by Units subject to the award shall be replaced with shares of a comparable fund in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds which preserves the compensation element of the award existing at the time the fund ceases to exist. The determination of fund comparability shall be made by the Compensation Committee of the Board and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
Right To Shares
. Participant shall not have any right in, to or with respect to any of the Shares (including any voting rights) issuable under the award until the award is settled by the issuance of such Shares to Participant.
 
Dividends
. Any dividends that are paid from time to time with respect to the Shares represented by the Units shall be deemed reinvested in the Shares with respect to which the dividend was paid and shall be credited to Participant as additional Units. Such additional Units shall vest in accordance with the terms of the applicable Standard IM Award Documents or Other IM Award Documents.
 
 
 
 
Updated Award Documents for Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards
.
 
Under the Company's 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), the Company may make awards of restricted stock and/or restricted stock units (among other types of awards) to any key executive, employee or director of the Company or its subsidiaries (each a "Plan Participant"). The Company previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as exhibits to certain of its Form 8-Ks copies of its forms of Notice of Restricted Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award Agreement and Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (collectively, "Award Documents"). The Company recently adopted updated forms of its Award Documents and, although the material terms of the Award Documents have not changed, copies of the updated Notice of Restricted Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award Agreement for awards in recognition of past efforts and contributions, Notice of Restricted Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award Agreement for inducement and/or performance awards, Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for awards in recognition of past efforts and contributions, and Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for inducement and/or performance awards are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.7, respectively (collectively, "Updated Award Documents"). The forms of Notice of Restricted Stock Award and Restricted Stock Award Agreement for awards in recognition of past efforts and contributions and for inducement and/or performance awards are substantially similar. Additionally, the forms of Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for awards in recognition of past efforts and contributions and for inducement and/or performance awards are substantially similar.
 
The following is a summary of the principal terms of the Updated Award Documents which are qualified in their entirety by reference to Exhibits 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.7, as applicable:
 
Restricted Stock Awards
.
 
The Company may issue to a Plan Participant shares of its common stock ("Stock") as set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Plan Participant as owner thereof as set forth in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement. All shares of Stock issued shall be deemed issued to Plan Participant as fully paid and non assessable shares, and, subject to the restrictions set forth in the 2002 Plan and the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, Plan Participant shall have all rights of a stockholder with respect thereto, including the right to vote, to receive dividends (including stock dividends), to participate in stock splits or other recapitalizations, and to exchange such shares in a tender offer, merger, consolidation or other reorganization.
 
Transfer Restrictions
. No Stock issued to Plan Participant shall be sold, transferred by gift, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise transferred or disposed of by Plan Participant prior to the date on which it becomes vested, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Plan Participant is not precluded, however, from exchanging the Stock awarded pursuant to a cash or stock tender offer, merger, reorganization or consolidation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any securities (including stock dividends and stock splits) received with respect to shares of Stock which are not yet vested shall be subject to the provisions of the Restricted Stock Award Agreement in the same manner and shall become fully vested at the same time as the Stock with respect to which such additional securities were issued.
 
Vesting
. Plan Participant's interest in the Stock awarded shall become vested and nonforfeitable in accordance with the vesting schedule in the Notice of Restricted Stock Award so long as Plan Participant maintains a continuous status as an employee (as such term is defined in the 2002 Plan) of the Company or
 
 
a subsidiary of the Company. If Plan Participant ceases to maintain a continuous status as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability, all shares of Stock to the extent not yet vested on the date Plan Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Plan Participant. If Plan Participant dies or in the event of termination of Plan Participant's continuous status as an employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, Plan Participant's interest in all shares of Stock awarded shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Plan Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Plan Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
Restricted Stock Unit Awards
.
 
The Company may issue to Plan Participant restricted stock units ("Stock Units") as set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Plan Participant as owner thereof as set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement.
 
Transfer Restrictions
. Stock Units may not be transferred by Plan Participant in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Plan Participant may designate a beneficiary of Stock Units in the event of Plan Participant's death. The terms of the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Plan Participant.
 
Vesting
. Stock Units shall become vested in accordance with the vesting schedule in the Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award so long as Plan Participant maintains a continuous status as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. If Plan Participant ceases to maintain a continuous status as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability, all Stock Units to the extent not yet vested on the date Plan Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Plan Participant. If Plan Participant dies or in the event of termination of Plan Participant's continuous status as an employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, Stock Units awarded hereunder shall become fully vested as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Plan Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Plan Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
Conversion Of Units And Issuance Of Shares
. Upon each vesting date, one share of Stock shall be issuable for each Stock Unit that vests on such date, subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award and the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Upon satisfaction of any required tax or other withholding obligations, the shares of Stock will be issued to Plan Participant as soon as practicable after the vesting date, but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is two and a half (2) months from the end of (i) Plan Participant's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date. Any fractional Stock Unit remaining after all Stock Units under the award are fully vested shall be discarded and shall not be converted into a fractional share of Stock. Notwithstanding the above, the Company may, in its discretion, pay to Plan Participant all or a portion of any vested Stock Units in cash in an amount equal to the shares of Stock, less any tax or other withholding obligations.
 
 
 
 
Right To Shares
. Plan Participant shall not have any right in, to or with respect to any of the shares of Stock (including any voting rights or rights with respect to dividends paid on the Stock) issuable for a Stock Unit until the award is settled by the issuance of such shares of Stock to Plan Participant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED ANNUAL INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
(amended and restated September 22, 2005)
(amended and restated December 16, 2004)
(amended and restated December 11, 2003)
 
I. PURPOSE
 
Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") hereby establishes the Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan for Principals and Associates (as hereinafter defined) to reward the contributions to the Company made by Principals and Associates by providing them an opportunity to share in the organization's annual performance results. Through these incentives, the Company intends to attract, retain, and motivate eligible employees to achieve the highest levels of performance results in the financial services business.
 
II. DEFINITIONS
 
When used in this plan document, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
 
2.1  "Associates' Pool" means the portion of the Award Pool allocated to Incentive Awards for Associates.
 
2.2  "Award Pool" means the total dollars available for funding Incentive Awards under the Plan for an applicable Plan Year. The Award Pool is comprised of the Associates' Pool and the Principals' Pool.
 
2.3  "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. as described in Section 9.1 below.
 
2.4  "Company" means Franklin Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.
 
2.5  "Incentive Award" means the actual current value of an award to a Participant, regardless of the form of the award, determined by the Committee during or following the end of the Plan Year, as applicable.
 
2.6  "Option" means the grant of a right to purchase Stock at a specified exercise price in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with the right to purchase such shares of Stock subject to the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
 
 
 
2.7  "Participant" means all Principals and Associates who have been determined by the Committee to be Participants, except employees who participate in commission-based incentive plans or who are non-exempt employees.
 
2.8  "Plan" means the Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan as set forth in this document, as amended from time to time.
 
2.9  "Pre-Tax Operating Income" (hereafter "PTOI") means the net operating income of the Company, exclusive of passive income and calculated before non-operating interest, taxes, extraordinary items and certain special items (such as special compensation payouts on account of merger) and before the accrual of Incentive Awards under the Plan and awards under the Company's 2004 Key Executive Incentive Compensation Plan or any successor plan.
 
2.10  "Plan Year" means the 12-month period beginning on the first day of each fiscal year of the Company.
 
2.11  "Principals' Pool" means the portion of the Award Pool allocated to Incentive Awards for Principals.
 
2.12  "Restricted Stock Award" means the grant of shares of Stock in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with such shares of Stock subject to a risk of forfeiture or other restrictions that will lapse based on the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.13  "Restricted Stock Unit Award" means the grant of a right to receive Stock upon the vesting of the units in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with such right to receive Stock subject to a risk of forfeiture or other restrictions that will lapse based on the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.14  "SAR" means the grant of a right to receive, in cash or Stock (as determined by the Committee), value equal to (or otherwise based on) the excess of (a) the fair market value of a specified number of shares of Stock at the time of exercise over (b) a specified exercise price, in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with the right to receive such value in cash or Stock subject to the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.15  "Stock" means Franklin Resources, Inc. common stock reserved for issuance under the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan.
 
2.16  "Stock Unit Award" means the grant of a right to receive Stock upon the vesting of the units in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the
 
 
 
Participant on behalf of the Company, with such right to receive Stock subject to a risk of forfeiture or other restrictions that will lapse based on the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.17  "Target Award" means a potential bonus opportunity for a Participant budgeted at the beginning of the Plan Year.
 
III. PARTICIPATION
 
3.1  All Principals and Associates employed by the Company at the beginning of the Plan Year are eligible to be Participants during that Plan Year. The Committee shall in its sole discretion determine annually which employees are Principals. All other eligible exempt staff are Associates. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, add exempt employees hired during a Plan Year as either Principals or Associates and may adjust Target Awards for such persons based upon such interim employment.
 
3.2  A non-exempt employee who becomes exempt during a Plan Year shall be eligible for an Incentive Award from the Associates' Pool, in the Committee's sole discretion.
 
3.3  A Participant who changes status (e.g., Associate to Principal) during a Plan Year shall continue in his former status for that Plan Year, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
3.4  A Participant's Incentive Award will be based upon an evaluation of a Participant's overall performance, including the successful accomplishment of annual goals and objectives, as well as other performance factors. A Participant who receives a formal performance appraisal and whose overall evaluation is at less than the median level of performance relative to such Participant's peers still remains eligible for an Incentive Award, but the Incentive Award may be reduced, even to zero. Participants on written warning may be eligible for an Incentive Award at the sole discretion of the Committee, but the Incentive Award may be reduced, even to zero.
 
IV. AWARD POOL FUNDING AND INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
 
4.1  For each Plan Year, the Committee shall:
 
(a)  Determine the percentage, not to exceed Twenty Percent (20%), if any, of PTOI that will be allocated to the Award Pool at various levels of Company performance measured by changes in PTOI from the prior year. The Committee may also determine if in its opinion prevailing circumstance dictates that the Award Pool for particular identified groups of Principals and/or Associates shall be based upon the PTOI of particular identified subsidiary or subsidiaries of the Company. The determinations made by the Committee shall be subject to approval of the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
 
 
 
(b)  Determine the allocation of the Award Pool of the Company and any identified subsidiary or subsidiaries of the Company as described in (a) above, between the Associates' Pool(s) and the Principals' Pool(s).
 
4.2  After consideration of recommendations made by management personnel, the Committee shall generally determine the amount of Target Awards for Participants under the Plan. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, advise Participants of particular Target Awards or ranges of Target Awards at any time during the Plan Year.
 
4.3  The actual amounts allocated to the Award Pool, the Associates' Pool(s) and/or the Principals' Pool(s) may be determined and/or revised at any time during or after the end of each Plan Year, based upon actual or projected Company performance and PTOI.
 
4.4  Actual Incentive Awards may be determined during or following the end of each Plan Year. The amount of any Incentive Awards determined and paid prior to the end of a Plan Year shall be credited against the Award Pool for such Plan Year so that the net amount remaining in the Award Pool is available for Incentive Awards determined and paid after after the end of such Plan Year. Actual Incentive Awards may vary from the Target Awards depending on the PTOI allocated or projected to be allocated to the Award Pool and a Participant's individual performance.
 
4.5  The Principals' Pool will be allocated among any or all Principals on the basis of a Participant's individual performance and based upon the accomplishment of such Participant's goals and objectives for the Plan Year. No Principals are guaranteed a payout from the Principals' Pool.
 
4.6  The Associates' Pool will be allocated among any or all Associates on the basis of a Participant's individual performance and based upon the accomplishment of such Participant's goals and objectives for the Plan Year. No Associates are guaranteed a payout from the Associates' Pool.
 
4.7  To promote the highest levels of individual performance, there is no minimum or maximum which applies to individual Incentive Awards of any Participant. Amounts not allocated as Incentive Awards do not carry over to the next Plan Year, and may be used for distribution as incentive compensation to employees who are not Participants in the Plan.
 
4.8  Notwithstanding a Participant's individual performance and anything to the contrary in this Plan, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, increase or decrease (even to zero) the Incentive Award payable to a Participant.
 
V. PAYMENT OF ANNUAL AWARDS
 
5.1  Incentive Awards may, in the Committee's discretion, be paid in the following time and manner:
 
 
 
 
(a)  Incentive Awards may be paid in cash or in a combination of cash and grants of Stock, Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards, Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards under the 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan, and shares of investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds, subject to restrictions and vesting determined by the Committee to be appropriate. Incentive Awards paid in Stock, Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards, Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards under the 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan shall also be subject to the limit on the maximum number of shares that may be issued under such plan and any additional limitations on the maximum number of shares that may be awarded to any individual in any fiscal or calendar year under such plan.
 
(b)  At least 25% of the Incentive Award will be paid in cash at such time during or after the end of the Plan Year as determined by the Committee. The balance (if any) of the cash portion of an Incentive Award shall be paid at such later time and in such manner as the Committee determines. Participants shall be notified in writing as to the date and time of payment of any such deferred portion of the Incentive Award.
 
(c)  Stock, Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards and shares of investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds awarded as part of an Incentive Award shall be distributed at such time during or after the end of the Plan Year as determined by the Committee. The number of shares of Stock, units or shares of investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds subject to such Incentive Awards as well as the other terms of such Incentive Awards shall be determined by the Committee and, if applicable, in accordance with the 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan.
 
VI. PAYMENT IN EVENT OF DEATH, DISABILITY, LEAVE OF ABSENCE OR RETIREMENT
 
6.1  Death of Participant.
 
A Participant who dies is entitled to a pro-rated Incentive Award based on performance up to the last day worked. Payment shall be made in cash in a single payment during or as soon as practical following the end of the Plan Year in which death occurred. If the Participant dies following the end of a Plan Year but before an Incentive Award for that year has been paid, the Participant's full Incentive Award shall be paid in cash in a single payment when it would otherwise have been paid. Payment of Incentive Awards on account of death shall be paid to the person designated by the Participant as beneficiary under this Plan. If there is no such designation or the designated beneficiary fails to survive the Participant, payment shall be made to the Participant's spouse or if there is none, the Participant's estate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.1 with respect to the payment of Incentive Awards, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount) or (b) decrease (even to zero) the Participant's Incentive Award.
 
 
 
 
6.2  Disability.
 
A Participant who ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which the Participant shall be eligible for payments under Company long term disability insurance policies, shall be entitled to receive a pro-rated Incentive Award based on performance up to the last day worked. Payment shall be made in cash in a single installment during or as soon as practical following the end of the fiscal year in which employment terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.2 with respect to the payment of Incentive Awards, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount) or (b) decrease (even to zero) the Participant's Incentive Award.
 
6.3  Leave of Absence.
 
The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine Incentive Awards, if any, to be paid to Participants on leave of absence for any portion of the Plan Year.
 
6.4  Retirement.
 
A Participant who retires during the Plan Year is eligible to receive a pro-rated Incentive Award based on performance to the date of retirement in cash in a single payment during or as soon as practical following the end of the fiscal year in which the Participant retires. A Participant has "retired" for purposes of this Plan if he terminates employment with the Company after reaching age 55 with at least 10 years of service to the Company, including service to any entity that is acquired by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.4 with respect to the payment of Incentive Awards, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount) or (b) decrease (even to zero) the Participant's Incentive Award.
 
VII. PAYMENT IN EVENT OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
 
7.1  Involuntary Termination of Employment.
 
(a)  If a Participant's employment is terminated by the Company as a result of the Company's dissatisfaction with the job related activities of the Participant or conviction of the Participant of a felony, the Participant shall forfeit any rights to any unpaid Incentive Awards under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) pay the Participant a pro-rated Incentive Award based upon performance during the Plan Year to the date of termination or (ii) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount).
 
(b)  If a Participant's employment is terminated for reasons other than those described in 7.1(a) above, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) pay the Participant a pro-rated Incentive Award based upon performance during the Plan Year to
 
 
 
the date of termination or (ii) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount).
 
7.2  Voluntary Termination of Employment.
 
If a Participant voluntarily resigns from employment at the Company, no Incentive Awards will be paid. The Participant shall forfeit the right to any Incentive Awards for the current performance year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant a pro-rated Incentive Award based upon performance during the Plan Year to the date of termination or (b) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount).
 
VIII. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION
 
8.1  Amendment.
 
The Committee reserves the right in its discretion to amend this Plan at any time in whole or in part, provided, however, that no amendment shall result in the forfeiture of any Participant's Incentive Awards earned as of the end of the fiscal year immediately preceding the date the Committee adopts the amendment.
 
8.2  Termination.
 
The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time. Termination shall not result in the forfeiture of any Participant's Incentive Awards which have been determined but not yet paid.
 
IX. ADMINISTRATION
 
9.1  Administration of the Plan.
 
This Plan has been adopted by the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. and shall be administered by the Committee.
 
(a)  The Committee shall meet at such times and places and upon such notice as the chairperson determines in consultation with the other Committee members. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. Any acts by the Committee may be taken at any meeting at which a quorum is present and shall be by majority vote of those members entitled to vote. Additionally, any acts reduced to writing or approved in writing by all the members of the Committee shall be valid acts of the Committee.
 
(b)  Among the administrative responsibilities of the Committee shall be the determination of Principals and Associates, Target Awards and Incentive Awards. This may be accomplished by adopting specific methods of determining the Target Awards and/or Incentive Awards which are then administered by other management personnel of the Company.
 
 
 
 
(c)  The Committee shall have the sole authority, in its absolute discretion, to adopt, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations as, in its opinion, may be advisable in the administration of the Plan, to construe and interpret the Plan, the rules and regulations, and any instruments evidencing Incentive Awards and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All decisions, determinations, and interpretations of the Committee shall be binding on all Participants.
 
(d)  The Plan is intended to meet the requirements of the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall be administered and construed accordingly.
 
9.2  Non-alienation of Benefits.
 
No benefit under this Plan may be sold, assigned, transferred, conveyed, hypothecated, encumbered, anticipated, or otherwise disposed of, and any attempt to do so shall be void. No such benefit shall, prior to receipt thereof by a Participant, be in any manner subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of such Participant.
 
9.3  No Limitation of Rights.
 
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to limit in any way the Company's general personnel policies and procedures particularly with respect to the right of the Company to terminate a Participant's employment at any time for any reason whatsoever with or without cause; nor shall it be evidence of any agreement or understanding, express or implied, that the Company (a) will employ a Participant in any particular position, (b) will ensure participation in any incentive programs, or (c) will grant any awards for such programs.
 
9.4  Applicable Law.
 
The provisions of the Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, with the exception of California's conflict of laws provisions.
 
9.5  Mandatory Arbitration.
 
As part of this Plan, the Company is implementing an alternative dispute resolution procedure for its employees. In the event there is any dispute arising out of unlawful harassment, discrimination or termination of employment with the Company, which the parties are unable to resolve through direct discussion or mediation, regardless of the kind or type of dispute, the Participant and the Company agree to submit all such disputes exclusively to final and binding arbitration pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Arbitration Act, or, if inapplicable, the provisions of applicable state law, or any
 
 
 
 
successor or replacement statutes, upon a request submitted in writing to the Human Resources Department within the applicable statutory limits or the statute of limitations. Any failure to timely request arbitration shall constitute a waiver of all rights to raise any claims in any forum arising out of any dispute that was subject to arbitration. The limitations period set forth in this paragraph shall not be subject to tolling, equitable or otherwise. Any agreement to arbitrate disputes contained in a securities registration application shall take precedence over this agreement. All substantive rights guaranteed under the statutes are still recognized through arbitration, and arbitration is merely a substituted forum for dispute resolutions.
 
* * *
This Plan was originally approved by the stockholders of the Company on January 19, 1994. The stockholders of the Company approved an amendment of the Plan on January 24, 1995. The Board approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on December 11, 2003 to (a) provide that up to 20% of PTOI may be allocated to the Award Pool by the Committee and (b) give broad discretion to the Committee in determining the amount of Incentive Awards payable to Participants in the Plan, which amendment and restatement was approved by the stockholders of the Company on January 29, 2004. The Board approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on December 16, 2004 to provide that Incentive Awards may be paid in Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards, which amendment and restatement was not subject to the approval of the stockholders of the Company. The Board approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on September 22, 2005 principally to (a) provide that the allocation of actual amounts to the Award Pool, Associates' Pool(s) and/or Principals' Pool(s) for a Plan Year and the determination and payment of actual Incentive Awards for a Plan Year may be made in advance of the completion of such Plan Year and (b) make various conforming and other technical changes to the Plan, which amendment and restatement was not subject to the approval of the stockholders of the Company.
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED ANNUAL INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
NOTICE OF RESTRICTED FUND UNIT AWARD
 
Participant:
 
 
 
Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes Participant's efforts and contributions on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries and, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements, has awarded Participant restricted fund units ("Units") pursuant to the terms and conditions of the accompanying Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement"), this Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award (the "Notice of Award" and together with the Award Agreement, the "Award") and the Company's Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (the "AIP"), as follows:
 
 
Vesting Schedule
 
Subject to Participant's continued employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries and other limitations set forth in this Notice of Award, the Award Agreement and the AIP, the Units (including fractions of Units) shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
[_____________]
Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Units subject to this Award shall vest only by Participant continuing employment at the will of the Company or its applicable subsidiary (not through the act of being hired, being granted this Award or acquiring Units hereunder). Participant further acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Award nor in the Award Agreement and the AIP, which is incorporated herein by this reference, affects the Company's, or a subsidiary's, right to terminate, or to change the terms of, Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause.
Participant understands that the Award is subject to Participant's consent to access, and acknowledgement of having accessed, the Notice of Award, the Award Agreement and the AIP
 
1
 
 
(collectively, the "AIP Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet or similar process as determined by the Company. By signing below, Participant hereby: (i) consents to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the AIP Documents and the prospectus(es) for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represents that Participant has access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledges receipt of electronic copies, or that Participant already is in possession of paper copies, of the AIP Documents and the prospectus(es) for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded; (iv) acknowledges that Participant is familiar with and has accepted the Award subject to the terms and provisions of the AIP Documents; and (v) consents to access and receive in the future electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) via the Company's Intranet of prospectuses for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded, shareholder reports, material prospectus supplements and other reports and communications sent from time to time to shareholders of such fund(s).
Participant may receive, without charge, upon written or oral request, paper copies of any or all of the AIP Documents, the prospectus(es) for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded or other documents provided electronically by requesting them from Stock Administration at the Company, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. Telephone (650) 525-8037. Participant may also withdraw Participant's consent to receive any or all documents electronically by notifying Stock Administration at the above address in writing.
In the event of Participant's death, Participant hereby designates the following as Participant's beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due to Participant pursuant to this Award. Please note that this designation applies only to this Award and not to any prior awards or grants under the AIP. This designation shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant only in jurisdictions where such beneficiary designations are enforceable under local law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
By Participant's electronic signature and by the signature of the Company's representative below, Participant and the Company agree that the Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Notice of Award, the Award Agreement and the AIP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED ANNUAL INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
RESTRICTED FUND UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement, together with any Appendix(es) attached hereto (hereinafter, collectively, the "Agreement"), is made as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award (the "Notice of Award") between Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and the Participant named therein ("Participant"). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the same meaning as set forth in the AIP (as defined below).
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Company have adopted the Franklin Resources, Inc. Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (the "AIP") to reward eligible individuals for contributions made to the Company; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the efforts and contributions of Participant on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries and desires to motivate Participant in Participant's work and provide an inducement to remain in the service of the Company and its subsidiaries; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company has determined that it would be to the advantage and in the interest of the Company and its stockholders to grant Participant an award (the "Award") of restricted fund units (the "Units"), as provided for in this Agreement and the Notice of Award, subject to certain restrictions, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
            
Restricted Fund Unit Award
. The Company is issuing to Participant Units as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in this Agreement
 
2.
            
Transfer Restriction
. The Units may not be transferred by Participant in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may designate a beneficiary of the Units in the event of Participant's death on the beneficiary designation form included in the Notice of Award. The terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant
 
 
(a)
                 
The Units shall become vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains a continuous status as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
 
(b)
                 
If Participant ceases to maintain a continuous status as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability (as described in subparagraph (c)), all Units to the extent not yet vested under subparagraph (a) on the date Participant ceases to be an employee
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
shall be forfeited by Participant without payment of any consideration to Participant therefor. Any Units so forfeited shall be canceled.
 
(c)
                 
If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's continuous status as an employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the Units awarded hereunder shall become fully vested as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board of Directors of the Company, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
(d)
                 
In the event of a proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company or of a merger or corporate combination of the Company (a "Transaction") in which the successor entity does not agree to assume the Award or substitute an equivalent award, the Company shall make a determination as to the equitable treatment of the Award and shall notify Participant of such treatment no later than ten (10) days prior to the consummation of such proposed Transaction. In the event the Award is not assumed in connection with a Transaction, the Award will terminate upon the consummation of such proposed Transaction.
 
 
(a)
                 
Upon each vesting date, the value of one share of the applicable class of a series of an investment company in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds ("fund") shall be issuable for each Unit that vests on such date (the "Shares"), subject to the terms and provisions of the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. Any fractional Unit that vests on a particular date shall be converted into the value of a fractional Share. Thereafter, the Company will transfer to a broker and/or dealer or equivalent entity authorized to effect transactions in such fund shares for the account of others (the "Broker/Dealer") in the jurisdiction of Participant's employment, or cause such Broker/Dealer to receive or otherwise credit, the aggregate Vested Value (as defined below) of such Shares for the benefit of such Participant. The Broker/Dealer will then cause the Shares to be acquired on behalf of Participant and, thereafter, the Broker/Dealer will transfer such Shares to Participant. Any Shares in a fund shall be advisor class shares or equivalent, if available; otherwise, they shall be Class A shares or equivalent or, if unavailable, the Company shall make a determination as to the class of Shares. Notwithstanding the above, the Company may, in its discretion, pay to Participant all or a portion of any vested Units in cash in an amount equal to the Vested Value of the Shares. The Shares or equivalent cash payment will be issued to Participant as soon as practicable after the vesting date, but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is two and a half (2) months from the end of (i) Participant's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date.
 
(b)
                 
"Vested Value" shall mean: (i) with regard to Shares of closed-end funds, the number of vested Shares multiplied by the closing price per share of the applicable fund on the primary stock exchange or NASDAQ stock market, as applicable, on which such fund then trades on the date the underlying Units vested (or, if such date is not a trading day, on the last trading day prior to such date), less any required tax or other withholding; or (ii) with regard to non-closed end funds, the aggregate Net Asset Value (as defined below) of the Shares on the date the underlying Units vested, less any required tax or other withholding obligations.
 
 
2
 
 
 
(c)
                 
"Net Asset Value" shall mean the net asset value per share of the applicable non-closed end fund calculated on the date of determination as detailed in the fund's prospectus (or, if the date of determination is not a trading day, on the last trading day prior to the date of determination).
 
(d)
                 
In the event any one or more of the funds set forth in the Notice of Award ceases to exist, the shares of such fund represented by Units subject to the Award shall be replaced with shares of a comparable fund in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds which preserves the compensation element of the Award existing at the time the fund ceases to exist. The determination of fund comparability shall be made by the Committee and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
 
(a)
                 
Except as set forth in paragraph 5(b) of this Agreement, Participant shall not have any right in, to or with respect to any of the Shares (including any voting rights) issuable under the Award until the Award is settled by the issuance of such Shares to Participant.
 
(b)
                 
Any dividends that are paid from time to time with respect to the Shares represented by the Units shall be deemed reinvested in the Shares with respect to which the dividend was paid, shall be credited to Participant as additional Units and shall vest upon the same vesting date (in accordance with the Notice of Award) of the corresponding Units pursuant to which the dividends were originally paid.
 
 
(a)
                 
General
. Participant is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by Participant in connection with the Units awarded, regardless of any action the Company or any of its subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Units awarded. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Units awarded or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares. The Company and its subsidiaries do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's tax liability.
 
(b)
                 
Payment of Withholding Taxes
. Prior to any event in connection with the Units awarded (
e.g.
, vesting) that the Company determines may result in any tax withholding obligation, whether United States federal, state or local taxes and including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Participant must arrange for the satisfaction of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company, including by means of one of the following methods:
 
(i)
   
By Unit Withholding.
Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (ii) below, Participant authorizes the Company (in the exercise of its sole discretion) to withhold the number of Units sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation, provided that the Company shall withhold only the amount of Units necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Unit withholding will result in issuance of a lower number of Shares or amount of equivalent cash, as applicable, to Participant.
 
(ii)
   
By Check, Wire Transfer or Other Means
. At any time not less than five (5) business days (or such fewer number of days as determined by the Committee or its designee) before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date), Participant may elect to satisfy the
 
3
 
 
minimum Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation by (x) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (y) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, or (z) such other means as specified from time to time by the Committee or its designee.
 
7.
                    
Successors
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Nothing contained in the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be interpreted as imposing any liability on the Company or the Committee in favor of Participant or any purchaser or other transferee of Units with respect to any loss, cost or expense which such Participant, purchaser or other transferee may incur in connection with, or arising out of any transaction involving, any Units subject to the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement.
 
8.
                   
No Compensation Deferrals
. None of the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended to provide for an elective deferral of compensation that would be subject to Section 409A ("Section 409A") of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the AIP, the Notice of Award and/or this Agreement to ensure that no awards (including, without limitation, the Units) become subject to the requirements of Section 409A, provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the Units are not subject to Section 409A nor makes any undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Units.
 
9.
                   
Integration
. The terms of the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended by the Company and Participant to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to the Units and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement. The Company and Participant further intend that the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of their terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any arbitration, judicial, administrative or other legal proceeding involving the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement. Accordingly, the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement contain the entire understanding between the parties and supersede all prior oral, written and implied agreements, understandings, commitments and practices among the parties.
 
10.
                 
Waivers
. Any failure to enforce any terms or conditions of the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement by the Company or by Participant shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power for all or any other times.
 
11.
                 
Severability of Provisions
. If any provision of the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof; and the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if neither of them included such provision.
 
12.
                 
Committee Decisions Conclusive
. This Agreement and the Notice of Award are administered and interpreted by the Committee and the Committee has full and exclusive discretion to interpret and administer this Agreement and the Notice of Award. All actions, interpretations and decisions of the Committee are conclusive and binding on all persons, and will be given the maximum possible deference allowed by law.
 
 
4
 
 
 
13.
                 
Mandatory Arbitration
. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Notice of Award and the AIP, including the meaning or interpretation thereof, shall be resolved solely by arbitration before an arbitrator selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The location for the arbitration shall be in the county or comparable jurisdiction of Participant's employment. Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Each party shall pay an equal share of the arbitrator's fees. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph are intended by Participant and the Company to be exclusive for all purposes and applicable to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Notice of Award and the AIP. The arbitrator who hears and decides any dispute shall have jurisdiction and authority only to award compensatory damages to make whole a person or entity sustaining foreseeable economic damages, and shall not have jurisdiction and authority to make any other award of any type, including without limitation, punitive damages, unforeseeable economic damage, damages for pain, suffering or emotional distress, or any other kind or form of damages. The remedy, if any, awarded by the arbitrator shall be the sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute which is subject to arbitration under this paragraph.
 
14.
                 
Delaware Law
. The Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent not preempted by the federal laws of the United States of America.
 
END OF AGREEMENT
 
 
5
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED ANNUAL INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
NOTICE OF RESTRICTED FUND UNIT AWARD
 
Participant:
 
 
 
Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes Participant's efforts and contributions on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries and, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements, has awarded Participant restricted fund units ("Units") pursuant to the terms and conditions of the accompanying Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement"), this Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award (the "Notice of Award" and, together with the Award Agreement, the "Award") and the Company's Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (the "AIP"), as follows:
 
 
Vesting Schedule
 
Subject to Participant's continued employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries and other limitations set forth in this Notice of Award, the Award Agreement and the AIP, the Units (including fractions of Units) shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
[_________________]
Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Units subject to this Award shall vest only by Participant continuing employment at the will of the Company or its applicable subsidiary (not through the act of being hired, being granted this Award or acquiring Units hereunder). Participant further acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Award nor in the Award Agreement and the AIP, which is incorporated herein by this reference, affects the Company's, or a subsidiary's, right to terminate, or to change the terms of, Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause.
Participant understands that the Award is subject to Participant's consent to access, and acknowledgement of having accessed, the Notice of Award, the Award Agreement and the AIP (collectively, the "AIP Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet or similar process as determined by the Company. By signing below, Participant hereby: (i)
 
1
 
 
consents to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the AIP Documents and the prospectus(es) for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represents that Participant has access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledges receipt of electronic copies, or that Participant already is in possession of paper copies, of the AIP Documents and the prospectus(es) for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded; (iv) acknowledges that Participant is familiar with and has accepted the Award subject to the terms and provisions of the AIP Documents; and (v) consents to access and receive in the future electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) via the Company's Intranet of prospectuses for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded, shareholder reports, material prospectus supplements and other reports and communications sent from time to time to shareholders of such fund(s).
Participant may receive, without charge, upon written or oral request, paper copies of any or all of the AIP Documents, the prospectus(es) for the fund(s) for which Units have been awarded or other documents provided electronically by requesting them from Stock Administration at the Company, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. Telephone (650) 525-8037. Participant may also withdraw Participant's consent to receive any or all documents electronically by notifying Stock Administration at the above address in writing.
In the event of Participant's death, Participant hereby designates the following as Participant's beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due to Participant pursuant to this Award. Please note that this designation applies only to this Award and not to any prior awards or grants under the AIP. This designation shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant only in jurisdictions where such beneficiary designations are enforceable under local law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
By Participant's electronic signature and by the signature of the Company's representative below, Participant and the Company agree that the Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Notice of Award, the Award Agreement and the AIP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED ANNUAL INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
RESTRICTED FUND UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This Restricted Fund Unit Award Agreement, together with any Appendix(es) attached hereto (hereinafter, collectively, the "Agreement"), is made as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Fund Unit Award (the "Notice of Award") between Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and the Participant named therein ("Participant"). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the same meaning as set forth in the AIP (as defined below).
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Company have adopted the Franklin Resources, Inc. Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (the "AIP") to reward eligible individuals for contributions made to the Company; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the efforts and contributions of Participant on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries and desires to motivate Participant in Participant's work and provide an inducement to remain in the service of the Company and its subsidiaries; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company has determined that it would be to the advantage and in the interest of the Company and its stockholders to grant Participant an award (the "Award") of restricted fund units (the "Units"), as provided for in this Agreement and the Notice of Award, subject to certain restrictions, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
   
          
Restricted Fund Unit Award
. The Company is issuing to Participant Units as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in this Agreement.
 
2.
   
          
Transfer Restriction
. The Units may not be transferred by Participant in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may designate a beneficiary of the Units in the event of Participant's death on the beneficiary designation form included in the Notice of Award. The terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant.
 
 
(a)
                 
The Units shall become vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains a continuous status as an employee of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
 
(b)
                 
If Participant ceases to maintain a continuous status as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability (as described in subparagraph (c)), all Units to the extent not yet vested under subparagraph (a) on the date Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Participant without payment of any consideration to Participant therefor. Any Units so forfeited shall be canceled.
 
1
 
 
 
(c)
                 
If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's continuous status as an employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the Units awarded hereunder shall become fully vested as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board of Directors of the Company, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
(d)
                 
In the event of a proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company or of a merger or corporate combination of the Company (a "Transaction") in which the successor entity does not agree to assume the Award or substitute an equivalent award, the Company shall make a determination as to the equitable treatment of the Award and shall notify Participant of such treatment no later than ten (10) days prior to the consummation of such proposed Transaction. In the event the Award is not assumed in connection with a Transaction, the Award will terminate upon the consummation of such proposed Transaction.
 
 
(a)
                 
Upon each vesting date, the value of one share of the applicable class of a series of an investment company in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds ("fund") shall be issuable for each Unit that vests on such date (the "Shares"), subject to the terms and provisions of the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. Any fractional Unit that vests on a particular date shall be converted into the value of a fractional Share. Thereafter, the Company will transfer to a broker and/or dealer or equivalent entity authorized to effect transactions in such fund shares for the account of others (the "Broker/Dealer") in the jurisdiction of Participant's employment, or cause such Broker/Dealer to receive or otherwise credit, the aggregate Vested Value (as defined below) of such Shares for the benefit of such Participant. The Broker/Dealer will then cause the Shares to be acquired on behalf of Participant and, thereafter, the Broker/Dealer will transfer such Shares to Participant. Any Shares in a fund shall be advisor class shares or equivalent, if available; otherwise, they shall be Class A shares or equivalent or, if unavailable, the Company shall make a determination as to the class of Shares. Notwithstanding the above, the Company may, in its discretion, pay to Participant all or a portion of any vested Units in cash in an amount equal to the Vested Value of the Shares. The Shares or equivalent cash payment will be issued to Participant as soon as practicable after the vesting date, but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is two and a half (2) months from the end of (i) Participant's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date.
 
(b)
                 
"Vested Value" shall mean: (i) with regard to Shares of closed-end funds, the number of vested Shares multiplied by the closing price per share of the applicable fund on the primary stock exchange or NASDAQ stock market, as applicable, on which such fund then trades on the date the underlying Units vested (or, if such date is not a trading day, on the last trading day prior to such date), less any required tax or other withholding; or (ii) with regard to non-closed end funds, the aggregate Net Asset Value (as defined below) of the Shares on the date the underlying Units vested, less any required tax or other withholding obligations.
 
(c)
                 
"Net Asset Value" shall mean the net asset value per share of the applicable non-closed end fund calculated on the date of determination as detailed in the fund's prospectus (or, if the date of determination is not a trading day, on the last trading day prior to the date of determination).
 
 
2
 
 
 
(d)
                 
In the event any one or more of the funds set forth in the Notice of Award ceases to exist, the shares of such fund represented by Units subject to the Award shall be replaced with shares of a comparable fund in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds which preserves the compensation element of the Award existing at the time the fund ceases to exist. The determination of fund comparability shall be made by the Committee and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
 
(a)
                 
Except as set forth in paragraph 5(b) of this Agreement, Participant shall not have any right in, to or with respect to any of the Shares (including any voting rights) issuable under the Award until the Award is settled by the issuance of such Shares to Participant.
 
(b)
                 
Any dividends that are paid from time to time with respect to the Shares represented by the Units shall be deemed reinvested in the Shares with respect to which the dividend was paid and shall be credited to Participant as additional Units. All such additional Units shall vest upon the next immediately following vesting date (in accordance with the Notice of Award).
 
 
(a)
                 
General
. Participant is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by Participant in connection with the Units awarded, regardless of any action the Company or any of its subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Units awarded. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Units awarded or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares. The Company and its subsidiaries do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's tax liability.
 
(b)
                 
Payment of Withholding Taxes
. Prior to any event in connection with the Units awarded (
e.g.
, vesting) that the Company determines may result in any tax withholding obligation, whether United States federal, state or local taxes and including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Participant must arrange for the satisfaction of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company, including by means of one of the following methods:
 
(i)
   
By Unit Withholding.
Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (ii) below, Participant authorizes the Company (in the exercise of its sole discretion) to withhold the number of Units sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation, provided that the Company shall withhold only the amount of Units necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Unit withholding will result in issuance of a lower number of Shares or amount of equivalent cash, as applicable, to Participant.
 
(ii)
   
By Check, Wire Transfer or Other Means
. At any time not less than five (5) business days (or such fewer number of days as determined by the Committee or its designee) before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date), Participant may elect to satisfy the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation by (x) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (y) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, or (z) such other means as specified from time to time by the Committee or its designee.
 
 
3
 
 
 
7.
   
                
Successors
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Nothing contained in the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be interpreted as imposing any liability on the Company or the Committee in favor of Participant or any purchaser or other transferee of Units with respect to any loss, cost or expense which such Participant, purchaser or other transferee may incur in connection with, or arising out of any transaction involving, any Units subject to the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement.
 
8.
   
                
No Compensation Deferrals
. None of the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended to provide for an elective deferral of compensation that would be subject to Section 409A ("Section 409A") of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the AIP, the Notice of Award and/or this Agreement to ensure that no awards (including, without limitation, the Units) become subject to the requirements of Section 409A, provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the Units are not subject to Section 409A nor makes any undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Units.
 
9.
   
                
Integration
. The terms of the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended by the Company and Participant to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to the Units and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement. The Company and Participant further intend that the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of their terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any arbitration, judicial, administrative or other legal proceeding involving the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement. Accordingly, the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement contain the entire understanding between the parties and supersede all prior oral, written and implied agreements, understandings, commitments and practices among the parties.
 
10.
                 
Waivers
. Any failure to enforce any terms or conditions of the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement by the Company or by Participant shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power for all or any other times.
 
11.
                 
Severability of Provisions
. If any provision of the AIP, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof; and the AIP, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if neither of them included such provision.
 
12.
                 
Committee Decisions Conclusive
. This Agreement and the Notice of Award are administered and interpreted by the Committee and the Committee has full and exclusive discretion to interpret and administer this Agreement and the Notice of Award. All actions, interpretations and decisions of the Committee are conclusive and binding on all persons, and will be given the maximum possible deference allowed by law.
 
13.
                 
Mandatory Arbitration
. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Notice of Award and the AIP, including the meaning or interpretation thereof, shall be resolved solely by arbitration before an arbitrator selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The location for the arbitration shall be in the county or comparable jurisdiction of Participant's employment. Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Each party shall pay an equal share of the arbitrator's fees. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph are intended by Participant and the Company to be exclusive
 
4
 
 
for all purposes and applicable to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Notice of Award and the AIP. The arbitrator who hears and decides any dispute shall have jurisdiction and authority only to award compensatory damages to make whole a person or entity sustaining foreseeable economic damages, and shall not have jurisdiction and authority to make any other award of any type, including without limitation, punitive damages, unforeseeable economic damage, damages for pain, suffering or emotional distress, or any other kind or form of damages. The remedy, if any, awarded by the arbitrator shall be the sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute which is subject to arbitration under this paragraph.
 
14.
                 
Delaware Law
. The Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent not preempted by the federal laws of the United States of America.
 
END OF AGREEMENT
 
 
5
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
NOTICE OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD
 
Participant:
 
 
 
In accordance with the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes Participant's efforts and contributions on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined in the 2002 Plan) and, as a reward for such efforts and contributions, has awarded Participant shares of common stock of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of the accompanying Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement"), this Notice of Restricted Stock Award (the "Notice of Award" and together with the Award Agreement, the "Award") and the 2002 Plan, as follows:
 
 
Subject to Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee (as defined in the 2002 Plan) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and other limitations set forth in the Award and the 2002 Plan, the Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
 
 
Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Shares subject to this Award shall vest only by Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and that such status is at the will of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary (not through the act of being hired, being granted this Award or acquiring Shares hereunder). Participant further acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Award nor in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference, affects the Company's, or a Subsidiary's, right to terminate, or to change the terms of, Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause.
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any
 
1
 
 
transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any Shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of Shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
Participant understands that the Award is subject to Participant's consent to access, and acknowledgement of having accessed, the 2002 Plan prospectus in connection with the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, any updates thereto, the 2002 Plan, the Award Agreement and this Notice of Award (collectively, the "2002 Plan Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet. By signing below, Participant hereby: (i) consents to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the 2002 Plan Documents via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represents that Participant has access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledges receipt of electronic copies, or that Participant is already in possession of paper copies, of the 2002 Plan Documents and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders; and (iv) acknowledges that Participant is familiar with and has accepted the Award subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan Documents.
 
Participant may receive, without charge, upon written or oral request, paper copies of any or all of the 2002 Plan Documents, documents incorporated by reference in the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders by requesting them from Stock Administration at the Company, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. Telephone (650) 525-8037. Participant may also withdraw Participant's consent to receive any or all documents electronically by notifying Stock Administration at the above address in writing.
 
In the event of Participant's death, Participant hereby designates the following as Participant's beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and Shares due to Participant pursuant to this Award. Please note that this designation applies only to this Award and not to any prior awards or grants under the 2002 Plan. This designation shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant only in jurisdictions where such beneficiary designations are enforceable under local law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
By Participant's electronic signature and by the signature of the Company's representative below, Participant and the Company agree that the Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the 2002 Plan, this Notice of Award and the Award Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This Restricted Stock Award Agreement, together with any Appendix(es) attached hereto (hereinafter, collectively, the "Agreement"), is made as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Award (the "Notice of Award") between Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and the Participant named therein ("Participant").
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Company have adopted the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), authorizing the grant of common stock of the Company ("Stock") to eligible individuals in connection with the performance of services for the Company and its Subsidiaries, as defined in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference (capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement have the same meaning as set forth in the 2002 Plan or the Notice of Award, as applicable); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the efforts and contributions of Participant on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries and, as a reward for such efforts and contributions, has determined to pay Participant an award in Stock provided for in this Agreement and the Notice of Award to Participant, subject to certain restrictions;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
   
          
Restricted Stock Award
. The Company is issuing to Participant shares of Stock as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in this Agreement. Such shares are being issued in book entry form and maintained on the books of the Bank of New York, the Company's transfer agent, or any successor thereto. All shares of Stock issued hereunder shall be deemed issued to Participant as fully paid and non assessable shares, and, subject to the restrictions set forth in the 2002 Plan and this Agreement, Participant shall have all rights of a stockholder with respect thereto, including the right to vote, to receive dividends (including stock dividends), to participate in stock splits or other recapitalizations, and to exchange such shares in a tender offer, merger, consolidation or other reorganization. The Company shall pay any applicable stock transfer taxes. Participant hereby acknowledges that Participant is acquiring the Stock issued hereunder for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof, and that Participant does not intend to subdivide Participant's interest in the Stock with any other person.
 
 
(a)
                 
No Stock issued to Participant hereunder shall be sold, transferred by gift, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise transferred or disposed of by Participant prior to the date on which it becomes vested under paragraph 3, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This paragraph shall not preclude Participant from exchanging the Stock awarded hereunder pursuant to a cash or stock tender offer, merger, reorganization or consolidation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any securities (including stock dividends and stock splits) received with respect to shares of Stock which are not yet vested under
 
1
 
 
paragraph 3 shall be subject to the provisions of this Agreement in the same manner and shall become fully vested at the same time as the Stock with respect to which such additional securities were issued.
 
(b)
                 
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
 
 
(a)
                 
Participant's interest in the Stock awarded under paragraph 1 shall become vested and nonforfeitable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary. Upon vesting, the Company shall, within thirty (30) days of such vesting, deliver to Participant the certificates evidencing the nonforfeitable shares (free of restrictive legends on such stock certificates), provided the withholding requirements of paragraph 4 have been satisfied. Alternatively, provided the withholding requirements of paragraph 4 have been satisfied, the Committee may permit or require that such nonforfeitable shares of Stock (free of the restrictive notations on shares of Stock issued in book-entry form) be deposited directly with a brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose or to a designated agent of the Company, and the Committee may utilize electronic or automated methods of share transfer.
 
(b)
                 
If Participant ceases to maintain a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability (as described in subparagraph (c)), all shares of Stock to the extent not yet vested under subparagraph (a) on the date Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Participant without payment of any consideration to Participant therefor. Any shares of Stock so forfeited shall be canceled and returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares, to be held for future distributions under the Company's 2002 Plan.
 
(c)
                 
If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, Participant's interest in all shares of Stock awarded hereunder shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
(a)
               
General
. Participant is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by Participant in connection with the Stock awarded, regardless of any action the Company or any of its Subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Stock awarded. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Stock awarded or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Stock. The Company and its Subsidiaries do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's tax liability.
 
2
 
 
 
(b)
               
Payment of Withholding Taxes
. Prior to any event in connection with the Stock awarded (
e.g.
, vesting) that the Company determines may result in any tax withholding obligation, whether United States federal, state or local taxes and including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Participant must arrange for the satisfaction of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company, including by means of one of the following methods:
(i)
                
By Share Withholding.
Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, Participant authorizes the Company (in the exercise of its sole discretion) to withhold from those unrestricted shares of Stock to be delivered to Participant upon vesting under paragraph 3 above the whole number of shares sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation, provided that the Company shall withhold only the amount of shares necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Share withholding will result in the delivery of a lower number of unrestricted shares of Stock to Participant. Share withholding will generally be used to satisfy the tax liability of individuals subject to the short-swing profit restrictions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(ii)
                
By Sale of Shares
. Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, and provided that the terms of this clause (ii) do not violate Section 13(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Participant's acceptance of the Stock awarded constitutes Participant's instruction and authorization to the Company and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose to sell on Participant's behalf a whole number of shares from those unrestricted shares of Stock to be delivered to Participant upon vesting under paragraph 3 above as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Such shares will be sold on the day such Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date) or as soon thereafter as practicable. Participant will be responsible for all broker's fees and other costs of sale, and Participant agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed the Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to Participant. Participant acknowledges that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Participant agrees to pay to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of shares described above.
(iii)
                
By Check, Wire Transfer or Other Means
. At any time not less than five (5) business days (or such fewer number of days as determined by the Committee or its designee) before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date), Participant may elect to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by (x) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (y) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, or (z) such other means as specified from time to time by the Committee or its designee.
5.
                    
Successors
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Nothing contained in the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be interpreted as imposing any liability on the Company or the Committee in favor of Participant or any purchaser or other transferee of Stock with respect to any loss, cost or expense which such Participant, purchaser or other transferee may
 
3
 
 
incur in connection with, or arising out of any transaction involving, any shares of Stock subject to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement.
 
6.
   
               
Integration
. The terms of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended by the Company and Participant to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to the shares of Stock and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement. The Company and Participant further intend that the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of their terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any arbitration, judicial, administrative or other legal proceeding involving the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement. Accordingly, the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement contain the entire understanding between the parties and supersede all prior oral, written and implied agreements, understandings, commitments and practices among the parties.
 
7.
   
               
Waivers
. Any failure to enforce any terms or conditions of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement by the Company or by Participant shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power for all or any other times.
 
8.
   
               
Severability of Provisions
. If any provision of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof; and the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if none of them included such provision.
 
9.
   
               
Committee Decisions Conclusive
. All decisions of the Committee arising under the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be conclusive.
 
10.
                 
Mandatory Arbitration
. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute arising out of or relating to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement, including the meaning or interpretation thereof, shall be resolved solely by arbitration before an arbitrator selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The location for the arbitration shall be in the county or comparable jurisdiction of Participant's employment. Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Each party shall pay an equal share of the arbitrator's fees. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph are intended by Participant and the Company to be exclusive for all purposes and applicable to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. The arbitrator who hears and decides any dispute shall have jurisdiction and authority only to award compensatory damages to make whole a person or entity sustaining foreseeable economic damages, and shall not have jurisdiction and authority to make any other award of any type, including without limitation, punitive damages, unforeseeable economic damage, damages for pain, suffering or emotional distress, or any other kind or form of damages. The remedy, if any, awarded by the arbitrator shall be the sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute which is subject to arbitration under this paragraph.
 
11.
                 
Delaware Law
. The 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent not preempted by the federal laws of the United States of America.
 
END OF AGREEMENT
 
 
4
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
NOTICE OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD
 
Participant:
 
 
 
In accordance with the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes Participant's efforts and contributions on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined in the 2002 Plan) and, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements, has awarded Participant shares of common stock of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of the accompanying Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement"), this Notice of Restricted Stock Award (the "Notice of Award" and together with the Award Agreement, the "Award") and the 2002 Plan, as follows:
 
 
Subject to Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee (as defined in the 2002 Plan) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and other limitations set forth in the Award and the 2002 Plan, the Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
 
 
Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Shares subject to this Award shall vest only by Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and that such status is at the will of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary (not through the act of being hired, being granted this Award or acquiring Shares hereunder). Participant further acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Award nor in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference, affects the Company's, or a Subsidiary's, right to terminate, or to change the terms of, Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause.
 
1
 
 
 
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any Shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of Shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
Participant understands that the Award is subject to Participant's consent to access, and acknowledgement of having accessed, the 2002 Plan prospectus in connection with the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, any updates thereto, the 2002 Plan, the Award Agreement and this Notice of Award (collectively, the "2002 Plan Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet. By signing below, Participant hereby: (i) consents to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the 2002 Plan Documents via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represents that Participant has access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledges receipt of electronic copies, or that Participant is already in possession of paper copies, of the 2002 Plan Documents and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders; and (iv) acknowledges that Participant is familiar with and has accepted the Award subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan Documents.
 
Participant may receive, without charge, upon written or oral request, paper copies of any or all of the 2002 Plan Documents, documents incorporated by reference in the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders by requesting them from Stock Administration at the Company, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. Telephone (650) 525-8037. Participant may also withdraw Participant's consent to receive any or all documents electronically by notifying Stock Administration at the above address in writing.
 
In the event of Participant's death, Participant hereby designates the following as Participant's beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and Shares due to Participant pursuant to this Award. Please note that this designation applies only to this Award and not to any prior awards or grants under the 2002 Plan. This designation shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant only in jurisdictions where such beneficiary designations are enforceable under local law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
By Participant's electronic signature and by the signature of the Company's representative below, Participant and the Company agree that the Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the 2002 Plan, this Notice of Award and the Award Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This Restricted Stock Award Agreement, together with any Appendix(es) attached hereto (hereinafter, collectively, the "Agreement"), is made as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Award (the "Notice of Award") between Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and the Participant named therein ("Participant").
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Company have adopted the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), authorizing the grant of common stock of the Company ("Stock") to eligible individuals in connection with the performance of services for the Company and its Subsidiaries, as defined in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference (capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement have the same meaning as set forth in the 2002 Plan or the Notice of Award, as applicable); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the efforts of Participant on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries and desires to motivate Participant in Participant's work and provide an inducement to remain in the service of the Company and its Subsidiaries; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company has determined that it would be to the advantage and in the interest of the Company and its stockholders to award the Stock provided for in this Agreement and the Notice of Award to Participant, subject to certain restrictions, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
            
Restricted Stock Award
. The Company is issuing to Participant shares of Stock as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in this Agreement. Such shares are being issued in book entry form and maintained on the books of the Bank of New York, the Company's transfer agent, or any successor thereto. All shares of Stock issued hereunder shall be deemed issued to Participant as fully paid and non assessable shares, and, subject to the restrictions set forth in the 2002 Plan and this Agreement, Participant shall have all rights of a stockholder with respect thereto, including the right to vote, to receive dividends (including stock dividends), to participate in stock splits or other recapitalizations, and to exchange such shares in a tender offer, merger, consolidation or other reorganization. The Company shall pay any applicable stock transfer taxes. Participant hereby acknowledges that Participant is acquiring the Stock issued hereunder for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof, and that Participant does not intend to subdivide Participant's interest in the Stock with any other person.
 
 
(a)
                 
No Stock issued to Participant hereunder shall be sold, transferred by gift, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise transferred or disposed of by Participant prior to the date on which it becomes vested under paragraph 3, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This paragraph shall not preclude Participant from exchanging the Stock awarded hereunder pursuant to a cash or stock tender
 
1
 
 
offer, merger, reorganization or consolidation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any securities (including stock dividends and stock splits) received with respect to shares of Stock which are not yet vested under paragraph 3 shall be subject to the provisions of this Agreement in the same manner and shall become fully vested at the same time as the Stock with respect to which such additional securities were issued.
 
(b)
                 
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
 
 
(a)
                 
Participant's interest in the Stock awarded under paragraph 1 shall become vested and nonforfeitable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary. Upon vesting, the Company shall, within thirty (30) days of such vesting, deliver to Participant the certificates evidencing the nonforfeitable shares (free of restrictive legends on such stock certificates), provided the withholding requirements of paragraph 4 have been satisfied. Alternatively, provided the withholding requirements of paragraph 4 have been satisfied, the Committee may permit or require that such nonforfeitable shares of Stock (free of the restrictive notations on shares of Stock issued in book-entry form) be deposited directly with a brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose or to a designated agent of the Company, and the Committee may utilize electronic or automated methods of share transfer.
 
(b)
                 
If Participant ceases to maintain a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability (as described in subparagraph (c)), all shares of Stock to the extent not yet vested under subparagraph (a) on the date Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Participant without payment of any consideration to Participant therefor. Any shares of Stock so forfeited shall be canceled and returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares, to be held for future distributions under the Company's 2002 Plan.
 
(c)
                 
If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, Participant's interest in all shares of Stock awarded hereunder shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
(a)
               
General
. Participant is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by Participant in connection with the Stock awarded, regardless of any action the Company or any of its Subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Stock awarded. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Stock awarded or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Stock. The Company and its Subsidiaries do not
 
2
 
 
commit and are under no obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's tax liability.
(b)
               
Payment of Withholding Taxes
. Prior to any event in connection with the Stock awarded (
e.g.
, vesting) that the Company determines may result in any tax withholding obligation, whether United States federal, state or local taxes and including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Participant must arrange for the satisfaction of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company, including by means of one of the following methods:
(i)
                
By Share Withholding.
Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, Participant authorizes the Company (in the exercise of its sole discretion) to withhold from those unrestricted shares of Stock to be delivered to Participant upon vesting under paragraph 3 above the whole number of shares sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation, provided that the Company shall withhold only the amount of shares necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Share withholding will result in the delivery of a lower number of unrestricted shares of Stock to Participant. Share withholding will generally be used to satisfy the tax liability of individuals subject to the short-swing profit restrictions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(ii)
               
By Sale of Shares
. Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, and provided that the terms of this clause (ii) do not violate Section 13(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Participant's acceptance of the Stock awarded constitutes Participant's instruction and authorization to the Company and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose to sell on Participant's behalf a whole number of shares from those unrestricted shares of Stock to be delivered to Participant upon vesting under paragraph 3 above as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Such shares will be sold on the day such Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date) or as soon thereafter as practicable. Participant will be responsible for all broker's fees and other costs of sale, and Participant agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed the Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to Participant. Participant acknowledges that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Participant agrees to pay to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of shares described above.
(iii)
              
By Check, Wire Transfer or Other Means
. At any time not less than five (5) business days (or such fewer number of days as determined by the Committee or its designee) before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date), Participant may elect to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by (x) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (y) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, or (z) such other means as specified from time to time by the Committee or its designee.
5.
            
Successors
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Nothing contained in the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be interpreted as imposing any liability on the Company or the Committee in favor of Participant or any purchaser or other transferee of
 
3
 
 
Stock with respect to any loss, cost or expense which such Participant, purchaser or other transferee may incur in connection with, or arising out of any transaction involving, any shares of Stock subject to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement.
 
6.
            
Integration
. The terms of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended by the Company and Participant to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to the shares of Stock and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement. The Company and Participant further intend that the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of their terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any arbitration, judicial, administrative or other legal proceeding involving the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement. Accordingly, the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement contain the entire understanding between the parties and supersede all prior oral, written and implied agreements, understandings, commitments and practices among the parties.
 
7.
            
Waivers
. Any failure to enforce any terms or conditions of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement by the Company or by Participant shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power for all or any other times.
 
8.
            
Severability of Provisions
. If any provision of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof; and the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if none of them included such provision.
 
9.
            
Committee Decisions Conclusive
. All decisions of the Committee arising under the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be conclusive.
 
10.
           
Mandatory Arbitration
. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute arising out of or relating to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement, including the meaning or interpretation thereof, shall be resolved solely by arbitration before an arbitrator selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The location for the arbitration shall be in the county or comparable jurisdiction of Participant's employment. Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Each party shall pay an equal share of the arbitrator's fees. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph are intended by Participant and the Company to be exclusive for all purposes and applicable to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. The arbitrator who hears and decides any dispute shall have jurisdiction and authority only to award compensatory damages to make whole a person or entity sustaining foreseeable economic damages, and shall not have jurisdiction and authority to make any other award of any type, including without limitation, punitive damages, unforeseeable economic damage, damages for pain, suffering or emotional distress, or any other kind or form of damages. The remedy, if any, awarded by the arbitrator shall be the sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute which is subject to arbitration under this paragraph.
 
11.
           
Delaware Law
. The 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent not preempted by the federal laws of the United States of America.
 
END OF AGREEMENT
 
4
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
NOTICE OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD
 
Participant:
 
 
In accordance with the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes Participant's efforts and contributions on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined in the 2002 Plan) and, as a reward for such efforts and contributions, has awarded Participant Restricted Stock Units ("Units") (as defined in the 2002 Plan) over common stock of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of the accompanying Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement"), this Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Notice of Award" and together with the Award Agreement, the "Award") and the 2002 Plan, as follows:
 
 
 
Subject to Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee (as defined in the 2002 Plan) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and other limitations set forth in the Award and the 2002 Plan, the Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Units subject to this Award shall vest only by Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and that such status is at the will of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary (not through the act of being hired, being granted this Award or acquiring Units hereunder). Participant further acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Award nor in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference, affects the Company's, or a Subsidiary's, right to terminate, or to change the terms of, Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause.
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
 
1
 
 
 
Participant understands that the Award is subject to Participant's consent to access, and acknowledgement of having accessed, the 2002 Plan prospectus in connection with the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, any updates thereto, the 2002 Plan, the Award Agreement and this Notice of Award (collectively, the "2002 Plan Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet. By signing below, Participant hereby: (i) consents to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the 2002 Plan Documents via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represents that Participant has access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledges receipt of electronic copies, or that Participant is already in possession of paper copies, of the 2002 Plan Documents and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders; (iv) acknowledges that Participant is familiar with and has accepted the Award subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan Documents; and (v) consents to access and receive in the future electronic copies via the Company's Intranet or otherwise of all documents made a part of, or incorporated by reference into, the 2002 Plan Documents in the future as well as any other reports, proxy statements and other communications distributed in the future to security holders of the Company generally.
 
Participant may receive, without charge, upon written or oral request, paper copies of any or all of the 2002 Plan Documents, documents incorporated by reference in the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders or any other documents described in the preceding paragraph by requesting them from Stock Administration at the Company, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. Telephone (650) 525-8037. Participant may also withdraw Participant's consent to receive any or all documents electronically by notifying Stock Administration at the above address in writing.
 
In the event of Participant's death, Participant hereby designates the following as Participant's beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due to Participant pursuant to this Award. Please note that this designation applies only to this Award and not to any prior awards or grants under the 2002 Plan. This designation shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant only in jurisdictions where such beneficiary designations are enforceable under local law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
By Participant's electronic signature and by the signature of the Company's representative below, Participant and the Company agree that the Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the 2002 Plan, this Notice of Award and the Award Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, together with any Appendix(es) attached hereto (hereinafter, collectively, the "Agreement"), is made as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Notice of Award") between Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and the Participant named therein ("Participant").
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Company have adopted the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), authorizing the grant of Restricted Stock Units (as defined in the 2002 Plan) ("Units") to eligible individuals in connection with the performance of services for the Company and its Subsidiaries, as defined in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference (capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement have the same meaning as set forth in the 2002 Plan or the Notice of Award, as applicable); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the efforts and contributions of Participant on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries and, as a reward for such efforts and contributions, has determined to pay Participant an award in Units provided for in this Agreement and the Notice of Award to Participant, subject to certain restrictions;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
            
Restricted Stock Unit Award
. The Company is issuing to Participant Units as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in this Agreement.
 
 
(a)
                 
Units may not be transferred by Participant in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may designate a beneficiary of Units in the event of Participant's death on the beneficiary designation form included in the Notice of Award. The terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant.
 
(b)
                 
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
(a)
                 
Units shall become vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary.
 
(b)
                 
If Participant ceases to maintain a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability (as described in subparagraph (c)), all Units to the extent not yet vested under subparagraph (a) on the date Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Participant without payment of any consideration to Participant therefor. Any Units so forfeited shall be canceled and any shares considered issuable pursuant to such Units, if applicable, shall be returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares, to be held for future distributions under the Company's 2002 Plan.
 
(c)
                 
If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, Units awarded hereunder shall become fully vested as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
4.
                 
Conversion of Units and Issuance of Shares
. Upon each vesting date, one share of common stock ("Stock") shall be issuable for each Unit that vests on such date, subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. Upon satisfaction of any required tax or other withholding obligations as set forth in paragraph 6 of this Agreement, the shares of Stock will be issued to Participant (as evidenced by the appropriate entry in the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) as soon as practicable after the vesting date, but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is two and a half (2) months from the end of (i) Participant's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date. Any fractional Unit remaining after all Units under this Award are fully vested shall be discarded and shall not be converted into a fractional share of Stock. Notwithstanding the above, the Company may, in its discretion, pay to Participant all or a portion of any vested Units in cash in an amount equal to the shares of Stock, less any tax or other withholding obligations set forth in paragraph 6 of this Agreement.
 
5.
                 
Right to Shares
. Participant shall not have any right in, to or with respect to any of the shares of Stock (including any voting rights or rights with respect to dividends paid on the Stock) issuable for a Unit under the Award until the Award is settled by the issuance of such shares of Stock to Participant.
 
 
(a)
               
General
. Participant is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by Participant in connection with Units awarded, regardless of any action the Company or any of its Subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with Units awarded. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of Units awarded
 
2
 
 
or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Stock. The Company and its Subsidiaries do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's tax liability.
 
(b)
               
Payment of Withholding Taxes
. Prior to any event in connection with Units awarded (
e.g.
, vesting) that the Company determines may result in any tax withholding obligation, whether United States federal, state or local taxes and including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Participant must arrange for the satisfaction of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company, including by means of one of the following methods:
(i)
                
By Share Withholding.
Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, Participant authorizes the Company (in the exercise of its sole discretion) to withhold from those shares of Stock issuable to Participant the whole number of shares sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation, provided that the Company shall withhold only the amount of shares necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Share withholding will result in issuance of a lower number of shares of Stock to Participant. Share withholding will generally be used to satisfy the tax liability of individuals subject to the short-swing profit restrictions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(ii)
               
By Sale of Shares
. Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, and provided that the terms of this clause (ii) do not violate Section 13(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Participant's acceptance of the Award constitutes Participant's instruction and authorization to the Company and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose to sell on Participant's behalf a whole number of shares from those shares of Stock issuable to Participant as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Such shares will be sold on the day such Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date) or as soon thereafter as practicable. Participant will be responsible for all broker's fees and other costs of sale, and Participant agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to Participant. Participant acknowledges that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to satisfy the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Participant agrees to pay to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of shares described above.
 
(iii)
              
By Check, Wire Transfer or Other Means
. At any time not less than five (5) business days (or such fewer number of days as determined by the Committee or its designee) before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date), Participant may elect to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by (x) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (y) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, or (z) such other means as specified from time to time by the Committee or its designee.
 
7.
                 
Successors
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Nothing contained in the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be interpreted as imposing any
 
3
 
 
liability on the Company or the Committee in favor of Participant or any purchaser or other transferee of Units or shares of Stock with respect to any loss, cost or expense which such Participant, purchaser or other transferee may incur in connection with, or arising out of any transaction involving, any Units or shares of Stock subject to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement.
 
8.
                 
No Compensation Deferrals
. None of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended to provide for an elective deferral of compensation that would be subject to Section 409A ("Section 409A") of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and/or this Agreement to ensure that no awards (including, without limitation, the Units) become subject to the requirements of Section 409A, provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the Units are not subject to Section 409A nor makes any undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Units.
 
9.
                 
Integration
. The terms of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended by the Company and Participant to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to Units and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement. The Company and Participant further intend that the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of their terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any arbitration, judicial, administrative or other legal proceeding involving the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement. Accordingly, the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement contain the entire understanding between the parties and supersede all prior oral, written and implied agreements, understandings, commitments and practices among the parties.
 
10.
                 
Waivers
. Any failure to enforce any terms or conditions of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement by the Company or by Participant shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power for all or any other times.
 
11.
                 
Severability of Provisions
. If any provision of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof; and the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if none of them included such provision.
 
12.
                 
Committee Decisions Conclusive
. All decisions of the Committee arising under the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be conclusive.
 
13.
                 
Mandatory Arbitration
. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute arising out of or relating to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement, including the meaning or interpretation thereof, shall be resolved solely by arbitration before an arbitrator selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The location for the arbitration shall be in the county or comparable jurisdiction of Participant's employment. Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Each party shall pay an equal share of the arbitrator's fees. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph are intended by Participant and the Company to be exclusive for all purposes and applicable to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. The arbitrator who hears and decides any dispute shall have jurisdiction and authority only to award compensatory damages to make whole a person or entity sustaining foreseeable economic damages, and shall not have jurisdiction and authority to make any other
 
4
 
 
award of any type, including without limitation, punitive damages, unforeseeable economic damage, damages for pain, suffering or emotional distress, or any other kind or form of damages. The remedy, if any, awarded by the arbitrator shall be the sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute which is subject to arbitration under this paragraph.
 
14.
                 
Delaware Law
. The 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent not preempted by the federal laws of the United States of America.
 
END OF AGREEMENT
 
 
5
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
NOTICE OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD
 
Participant:
 
In accordance with the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes Participant's efforts and contributions on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined in the 2002 Plan) and, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements, has awarded Participant Restricted Stock Units ("Units") (as defined in the 2002 Plan) over common stock of the Company subject to the terms and conditions of the accompanying Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (the "Award Agreement"), this Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Notice of Award" and together with the Award Agreement, the "Award") and the 2002 Plan, as follows:
 
 
 
Subject to Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee (as defined in the 2002 Plan) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and other limitations set forth in the Award and the 2002 Plan, the Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Units subject to this Award shall vest only by Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and that such status is at the will of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary (not through the act of being hired, being granted this Award or acquiring Units hereunder). Participant further acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Award nor in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference, affects the Company's, or a Subsidiary's, right to terminate, or to change the terms of, Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause.
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
 
1
 
 
 
Participant understands that the Award is subject to Participant's consent to access, and acknowledgement of having accessed, the 2002 Plan prospectus in connection with the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, any updates thereto, the 2002 Plan, the Award Agreement and this Notice of Award (collectively, the "2002 Plan Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet. By signing below, Participant hereby: (i) consents to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the 2002 Plan Documents via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represents that Participant has access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledges receipt of electronic copies, or that Participant is already in possession of paper copies, of the 2002 Plan Documents and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders; (iv) acknowledges that Participant is familiar with and has accepted the Award subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan Documents; and (v) consents to access and receive in the future electronic copies via the Company's Intranet or otherwise of all documents made a part of, or incorporated by reference into, the 2002 Plan Documents in the future as well as any other reports, proxy statements and other communications distributed in the future to security holders of the Company generally.
 
Participant may receive, without charge, upon written or oral request, paper copies of any or all of the 2002 Plan Documents, documents incorporated by reference in the Form S-8 registration statement for the 2002 Plan, and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders or any other documents described in the preceding paragraph by requesting them from Stock Administration at the Company, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. Telephone (650) 525-8037. Participant may also withdraw Participant's consent to receive any or all documents electronically by notifying Stock Administration at the above address in writing.
 
In the event of Participant's death, Participant hereby designates the following as Participant's beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due to Participant pursuant to this Award. Please note that this designation applies only to this Award and not to any prior awards or grants under the 2002 Plan. This designation shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant only in jurisdictions where such beneficiary designations are enforceable under local law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
By Participant's electronic signature and by the signature of the Company's representative below, Participant and the Company agree that the Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the 2002 Plan, this Notice of Award and the Award Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2002 UNIVERSAL STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, together with any Appendix(es) attached hereto (hereinafter, collectively, the "Agreement"), is made as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Notice of Award") between Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") and the Participant named therein ("Participant").
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Company have adopted the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"), authorizing the grant of Restricted Stock Units (as defined in the 2002 Plan) ("Units") to eligible individuals in connection with the performance of services for the Company and its Subsidiaries, as defined in the 2002 Plan, which is incorporated herein by this reference (capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement have the same meaning as set forth in the 2002 Plan or the Notice of Award, as applicable); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the efforts of Participant on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries and desires to motivate Participant in Participant's work and provide an inducement to remain in the service of the Company and its Subsidiaries; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company has determined that it would be to the advantage and in the interest of the Company and its stockholders to award Units provided for in this Agreement and the Notice of Award to Participant, subject to certain restrictions, as a reward and an incentive for increased efforts and successful achievements;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
            
Restricted Stock Unit Award
. The Company is issuing to Participant Units as set forth in the Notice of Award, subject to the rights of and limitations on Participant as owner thereof as set forth in this Agreement.
 
 
(a)
                 
Units may not be transferred by Participant in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may designate a beneficiary of Units in the event of Participant's death on the beneficiary designation form included in the Notice of Award. The terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and transferees of Participant.
 
(b)
                 
Participant acknowledges that, from time to time, the Company may be in a "Blackout Period" and/or subject to applicable securities laws that could subject Participant to liability for engaging in any transaction involving the sale of the Company's shares. Participant further acknowledges and agrees that, prior to the sale of any shares acquired under this Award, it is Participant's responsibility to
 
1
 
 
determine whether or not such sale of shares will subject Participant to liability under insider trading rules or other applicable securities laws.
 
 
(a)
                 
Units shall become vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule in the Notice of Award so long as Participant maintains a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary.
 
(b)
                 
If Participant ceases to maintain a Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death or disability (as described in subparagraph (c)), all Units to the extent not yet vested under subparagraph (a) on the date Participant ceases to be an employee shall be forfeited by Participant without payment of any consideration to Participant therefor. Any Units so forfeited shall be canceled and any shares considered issuable pursuant to such Units, if applicable, shall be returned to the status of authorized but unissued shares, to be held for future distributions under the Company's 2002 Plan.
 
(c)
                 
If Participant dies or in the event of termination of Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee as a result of disability (as determined by the Board in accordance with the policies of the Company) while an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, Units awarded hereunder shall become fully vested as of the date of death or termination of employment on account of such disability. Unless changed by the Board, "disability" means that Participant ceases to be an employee on account of permanent and total disability as a result of which Participant shall be eligible for payments under the Company's long-term disability policy.
 
4.
                 
Conversion of Units and Issuance of Shares
. Upon each vesting date, one share of common stock ("Stock") shall be issuable for each Unit that vests on such date, subject to the terms and provisions of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. Upon satisfaction of any required tax or other withholding obligations as set forth in paragraph 6 of this Agreement, the shares of Stock will be issued to Participant (as evidenced by the appropriate entry in the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) as soon as practicable after the vesting date, but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is two and a half (2) months from the end of (i) Participant's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable vesting date. Any fractional Unit remaining after all Units under this Award are fully vested shall be discarded and shall not be converted into a fractional share of Stock. Notwithstanding the above, the Company may, in its discretion, pay to Participant all or a portion of any vested Units in cash in an amount equal to the shares of Stock, less any tax or other withholding obligations set forth in paragraph 6 of this Agreement.
 
5.
                 
Right to Shares
. Participant shall not have any right in, to or with respect to any of the shares of Stock (including any voting rights or rights with respect to dividends paid on the Stock) issuable for a Unit under the Award until the Award is settled by the issuance of such shares of Stock to Participant.
 
 
(a)
               
General
. Participant is ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by Participant in connection with Units awarded, regardless of any action the Company or any of its
 
2
 
 
Subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with Units awarded. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of Units awarded or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Stock. The Company and its Subsidiaries do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate Participant's tax liability.
 
(b)
                
Payment of Withholding Taxes
. Prior to any event in connection with Units awarded (
e.g.
, vesting) that the Company determines may result in any tax withholding obligation, whether United States federal, state or local taxes and including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Participant must arrange for the satisfaction of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company, including by means of one of the following methods:
(i)
                
By Share Withholding.
Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, Participant authorizes the Company (in the exercise of its sole discretion) to withhold from those shares of Stock issuable to Participant the whole number of shares sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation, provided that the Company shall withhold only the amount of shares necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Share withholding will result in issuance of a lower number of shares of Stock to Participant. Share withholding will generally be used to satisfy the tax liability of individuals subject to the short-swing profit restrictions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(ii)
               
By Sale of Shares
. Unless Participant determines to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (iii) below, and provided that the terms of this clause (ii) do not violate Section 13(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Participant's acceptance of the Award constitutes Participant's instruction and authorization to the Company and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose to sell on Participant's behalf a whole number of shares from those shares of Stock issuable to Participant as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the minimum applicable Tax Withholding Obligation. Such shares will be sold on the day such Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date) or as soon thereafter as practicable. Participant will be responsible for all broker's fees and other costs of sale, and Participant agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to Participant. Participant acknowledges that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to satisfy the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Participant agrees to pay to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the minimum Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of shares described above.
 
(iii)
              
By Check, Wire Transfer or Other Means
. At any time not less than five (5) business days (or such fewer number of days as determined by the Committee or its designee) before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (
e.g.
, a vesting date), Participant may elect to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by (x) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (y) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, or (z) such other means as specified from time to time by the Committee or its designee.
 
 
3
 
 
 
7.
                 
Successors
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Nothing contained in the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be interpreted as imposing any liability on the Company or the Committee in favor of Participant or any purchaser or other transferee of Units or shares of Stock with respect to any loss, cost or expense which such Participant, purchaser or other transferee may incur in connection with, or arising out of any transaction involving, any Units or shares of Stock subject to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement.
 
8.
                 
No Compensation Deferrals
. None of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended to provide for an elective deferral of compensation that would be subject to Section 409A ("Section 409A") of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and/or this Agreement to ensure that no awards (including, without limitation, the Units) become subject to the requirements of Section 409A, provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the Units are not subject to Section 409A nor makes any undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Units.
 
9.
                 
Integration
. The terms of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement are intended by the Company and Participant to be the final expression of their agreement with respect to Units and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement. The Company and Participant further intend that the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive statement of their terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any arbitration, judicial, administrative or other legal proceeding involving the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement. Accordingly, the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement contain the entire understanding between the parties and supersede all prior oral, written and implied agreements, understandings, commitments and practices among the parties.
 
10.
                 
Waivers
. Any failure to enforce any terms or conditions of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement by the Company or by Participant shall not be deemed a waiver of that term or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power for all or any other times.
 
11.
                 
Severability of Provisions
. If any provision of the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision thereof; and the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if none of them included such provision.
 
12.
                 
Committee Decisions Conclusive
. All decisions of the Committee arising under the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award or this Agreement shall be conclusive.
 
13.
                 
Mandatory Arbitration
. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute arising out of or relating to the 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement, including the meaning or interpretation thereof, shall be resolved solely by arbitration before an arbitrator selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The location for the arbitration shall be in the county or comparable jurisdiction of Participant's employment. Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Each party shall pay an equal share of the arbitrator's fees. All statutes of limitation which would otherwise be applicable shall apply to any arbitration proceeding under this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph are intended by Participant and the Company to be exclusive for all purposes and applicable to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to the 2002
 
4
 
 
Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement. The arbitrator who hears and decides any dispute shall have jurisdiction and authority only to award compensatory damages to make whole a person or entity sustaining foreseeable economic damages, and shall not have jurisdiction and authority to make any other award of any type, including without limitation, punitive damages, unforeseeable economic damage, damages for pain, suffering or emotional distress, or any other kind or form of damages. The remedy, if any, awarded by the arbitrator shall be the sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute which is subject to arbitration under this paragraph.
 
14.
                 
Delaware Law
. The 2002 Plan, the Notice of Award and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent not preempted by the federal laws of the United States of America.
 
END OF AGREEMENT
 
 
5
 
 
 


