FILE:BEN/BEN-8K-20060912164422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On September 6, 2006, James R. Baio, the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company"), notified the Company that he will end his employment on October 20, 2006. Mr. Baio informed the Company that he has accepted a position as chief financial officer with a privately-held real estate financial services company in California. The Company expects to conduct a search both inside and outside the Company to identify potential candidates for the position of Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
In the interim, on September 12, 2006, Kenneth A. Lewis, a Certified Public Accountant, was selected for appointment, subject to approval by the Board of Directors of the Company, as the interim Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company, effective upon the departure of Mr. Baio. Mr. Lewis, age 45, has served as Vice President  Enterprise Risk Management of the Company and Chairman of the Company's Enterprise Risk Management Committee since April 2006. Mr. Lewis was previously Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from 2003 to April 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Lewis served as Vice President  Finance and Controller of the Company and has been an officer and/or director of certain subsidiaries of the Company for more than the past five years. Mr. Lewis joined Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. in 1989 and previously served as controller of Templeton prior to the acquisition of Templeton by the Company in 1992 and has been with the Company and its subsidiaries since that time. Mr. Lewis is an at-will employee of the Company, currently receives an annual salary of $330,000, is eligible to receive a bonus of cash and/or restricted stock and is entitled to receive medical, life and disability insurance coverage and other benefits available generally to employees of the Company and/or its subsidiaries.
Information with respect to David A. Lewis, the brother of Mr. Kenneth A. Lewis, is previously reported under the heading "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 29, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


