FILE:BEN/BEN-8K-20061222165011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  December 13, 2006
 
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (650) 312-3000
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
(b) On December 20, 2006, Anne M. Tatlock, a Vice Chairman, Member  Office of the Chairman of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") determined that she will retire from her employment with the Company effective January 25, 2007. Ms. Tatlock has previously announced that she will retire as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Fiduciary Trust Company International, a subsidiary of the Company ("Fiduciary Trust") effective January 1, 2007. Ms. Tatlock will continue as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company and of Fiduciary Trust.
 
(e) On December 20, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, pursuant to its authority under the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2004 Key Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the "KEIP"), established a maximum individual target award of $7,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 (the "2007 fiscal year") for Mr. Gregory E. Johnson, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. This maximum individual target award can be achieved based on two components, operating profit margin (rounded to the nearest whole percent) and the average (rounded to the nearest whole percent) of the percentage growth of diluted earnings per share and pre-tax operating income. If the Company's operating profit margin is 35% or greater for the 2007 fiscal year, then Mr. Johnson will be entitled to receive $2,100,000 of the aggregate maximum individual target award. If such operating profit margin is 32% to 34%, then Mr. Johnson will be entitled to receive $1,890,000 or, if such operating profit margin is 28% to 31%, then Mr. Johnson will be entitled to receive $1,680,000. If such operating profit margin is less than 28%, then Mr. Johnson will forfeit any right to receive this $2,100,000 portion of the target award. If the average of the percentage growth of diluted earnings per share and pre-tax operating income for the 2007 fiscal year is 23% or greater, then Mr. Johnson will be entitled to receive $4,900,000 of the target award. If such percentage is 15% to 22%, then he will be entitled to receive $3,920,000; if such percentage is 10% to 14%, then he will be entitled to receive $2,450,000; or if such percentage is 5% to 9%, then he will be entitled to receive $980,000. If such percentage is less than 5%, then Mr. Johnson will forfeit any right to receive this $4,900,000 portion of the target award. Pre-tax operating income is defined as total operating revenue less total operating expenses determined on a consolidated basis reported as operating income included in the Company's earnings release issued after the fourth quarter of the 2007 fiscal year. Notwithstanding the potential amounts receivable pursuant to the target award, the actual award amounts payable to Mr. Johnson are subject to the Compensation Committee's authority under the KEIP to reduce the award amounts otherwise payable to him. Additionally, in accordance with the KEIP, the award amounts are payable in cash or common stock at the discretion of the Compensation Committee.
 
 
On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company approved the amendment and, in certain cases, restatement of certain of the Company's employee benefit plans, in particular the Franklin Resources, Inc. 1998 Employee Stock Investment Plan, as amended (the "ESIP"), the Franklin Resources, Inc. Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (the "AIP") and the KEIP. The amendment and, in certain cases, restatement of the plans had previously been approved by the Compensation Committee of the Company and recommended to the Board for approval.
 
With respect to the ESIP, the Board approved the amendment and restatement of the ESIP to, among other things, (i) increase the maximum number of shares which shall be made available for sale or as a matching grant under the ESIP to eight million (8,000,000) shares, (ii) extend the term of the ESIP to January 31, 2018, and (iii) remove, for Purchase Periods (as such term is defined in the ESIP) occurring on and after the date the Board approved such amendment and restatement, the provision of the ESIP that
employees will not be eligible to participate in the ESIP for any relevant Purchase Period if such employee's customary employment is less than 20 hours per week. Certain clarifying, technical and/or
 
1
 
 
other minor changes to the ESIP were also approved by the Board as part of the amendment and restatement of the ESIP. The ESIP is intended to qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and, accordingly, only the increase in the maximum number of shares available under the ESIP is subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders, which such approval shall be sought at the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders.
 
With respect to the AIP and the KEIP, the Board approved the amendment and restatement of the AIP and the amendment of the KEIP principally to make clarifying and technical changes to the applicable plan, including, in particular, to address the application and effects of Section 409A of the Code (relating to deferred compensation arrangements) and any related regulatory or administrative guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service. None of the amendments to the AIP or the KEIP are subject to the approval of the stockholders of the Company.
 
This brief description of the amendments and, as applicable, restatements of each of the ESIP, the AIP and the KEIP is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of each of the amended and, as applicable, restated ESIP, AIP and KEIP, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
1998 EMPLOYEE STOCK INVESTMENT PLAN
As Amended and Restated December 13, 2006
The following constitute the provisions of the 1998 Employee Stock Investment Plan of Franklin Resources, Inc.
The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the Company (as hereinafter defined) and its Designated Parents or Subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase Common Stock of the Company through accumulated payroll deductions. It is the intention of the Company to have the Plan qualify as an "Employee Stock Investment Plan" under Section 423 of the Code (as hereinafter defined). The provisions of the Plan, accordingly, shall be construed so as to extend and limit participation in a manner consistent with the requirements of that section of the Code.
As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)           "
Accrual Period"
means a period of approximately six (6) months, commencing on February 1 and August 1 of each year and terminating on the next following July 31 or January 31, respectively, except with respect to the first accrual period which may be shorter if so determined by the Plan Administrator.
(f)         "
Compensation
" means an Employee's base salary (whether such amount is reflected by one amount or several separate components making up an aggregate amount) and commissions from the Company including paid time off and overtime or one or more Designated Parents or Subsidiaries, including such amounts of base salary and commissions as are deferred by the Employee (i) under a qualified cash or deferred arrangement described in Section 401(k) of the Code, or (ii) to a plan qualified under Section 125 of the Code. Compensation does
not
include bonuses, restricted stock awards, other annual awards, other incentive payments, reimbursements or other expense
 
 
 
allowances, fringe benefits (cash or noncash), moving expenses, deferred compensation, profit sharing or other employer matching contributions (other than employee deferral contributions described in the first sentence) made on the Employee's behalf by the Company or one (1) or more Designated Parents or Subsidiaries under any employee benefit or welfare plan now or hereafter established, and any other payments not specifically referenced in the first sentence.
(g)
           
"
Corporate Transaction
" means any of the following stockholder-approved transactions to which the Company is a party:
(h)
           
"
Designated Parents or Subsidiaries
" means the Parents or Subsidiaries which have been designated by the Plan Administrator from time to time as eligible to participate in the Plan.
(i)
             
"
Effective Date
" means February 1, 1998 or such later date as is designated by the Plan Administrator for the commencement of the first Purchase and Accrual Period hereunder. However, should any Designated Parent or Subsidiary become a participating company in the Plan after such date, then such entity shall designate a separate Effective Date with respect to its employee-participants.
(j)
             
"
Employee
" means any individual, including an officer or director, who is an employee of the Company or a Designated Parent or Subsidiary for purposes of Section 423 of the Code. For purposes of the Plan, the employment relationship shall be treated as continuing intact while the individual is on medical leave or other leave of absence approved by the individual's employer. Where the period of leave exceeds ninety (90) days and the individual's right to reemployment is not guaranteed either by statute or by contract, the employment relationship will be deemed to have terminated on the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave for purposes of determining eligibility to participate in the Plan.
 
 
2
 
 
 
(n)
           
"
Fair Market Value
" means, as of any date, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape on such date. In the event such date is not a day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading or the Company's Common Stock was not traded on such date, then such closing price for the last market trading day immediately prior to such date shall be used.
(o)
           
"
Parent
" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
(p)
           
"
Participant
" means an Employee of the Company or Designated Parent or Subsidiary who is actively participating in the Plan.
(q)
           
"
Plan
" means the Franklin Resources, Inc. 1998 Employee Stock Investment Plan.
(r)
            
"
Plan Administrator
" means either the Board or a Committee of the Board that is responsible for the administration of the Plan as is designated from time to time by resolution of the Board.
(s)
            
"
Purchase Period
" means a purchase period established pursuant to Section 4 hereof.
(t)
             
"
Purchase Price
" shall mean an amount equal to Ninety Percent (90%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Enrollment Date or on the Exercise Date, whichever is lower.
(u)
           
"
Reserves
" means the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which have not yet been exercised and the number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but not yet placed under option.
(v)
           
"
Subsidiary
" means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
(a)
            
Any individual who is an Employee for the ten (10) day period prior to and including a given Enrollment Date, shall be eligible to participate in the Plan for the Purchase Period commencing with such Enrollment Date.
(b)
           
Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no Employee shall be granted an option under the Plan (i) if, immediately after the grant, such Employee (taking into account stock owned by any other person which would be attributed to such Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) would own stock and/or hold outstanding options to purchase stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or of
 
3
 
 
any Parent or Subsidiary, or (ii) which permits such person's rights to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans of the Company and its Parents or Subsidiaries to accrue at a rate which exceeds Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) worth of stock (determined at the Fair Market Value of the shares at the time such option is granted prior to any discounts provided for in such plan) for each calendar year in which such option is outstanding at any time. The determination of the accrual of the right to purchase stock shall be made in accordance with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
(c)
            
Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, Employees who are subject to rules or laws of a foreign jurisdiction that prohibit or make impractical the participation of such Employees in the Plan shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan for any relevant Purchase Period.
(a)
            
The Plan shall be implemented through overlapping or consecutive Purchase Periods until such time as (i) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall have been purchased or (ii) the Plan shall have been sooner terminated in accordance with Section 19 hereof. The maximum duration of a Purchase Period shall be twenty-seven (27) months. Initially, the Plan shall be implemented through overlapping Purchase Periods of twenty-four (24) months' duration commencing each February 1 and August 1 following the first Effective Date designated by the Plan Administrator (except that the initial Purchase Period shall commence on the Effective Date and shall end on January 31, 2000). The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to change the length of any Purchase Period and the length of Accrual Periods within any such Purchase Period subsequent to the initial Purchase Period by announcement at least ten (10) days prior to the commencement of the Purchase Period and to determine whether subsequent Purchase Periods shall be consecutive or overlapping. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Company determines it is inadvisable to issue and/or purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan as of any Exercise Date, issuances and/or purchases under the Plan shall be delayed until a date specified by the Plan Administrator.
(b)
           
A Participant will be granted a separate option for each Purchase Period in which such individual participates. The option shall be granted on the Enrollment Date and will be automatically exercised in successive installments on the Exercise Dates ending within the Purchase Period.
(c)
            
An Employee may participate in only one Purchase Period at a time. Accordingly, except as provided in subsection 4(d) below, an Employee who wishes to join a new Purchase Period must withdraw from the current Purchase Period in which such Employee is participating and must also enroll in the new Purchase Period prior to the Enrollment Date for that Purchase Period.
(d)
           
If on the first day of any Accrual Period in a Purchase Period in which a Participant is participating, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock is less than the
 
4
 
 
Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Enrollment Date of the Purchase Period (after taking into account any adjustment during the Purchase Period pursuant to Section 18(a)), the Purchase Period shall be terminated automatically and the Participant shall be enrolled automatically in the new Purchase Period which has its first Accrual Period commencing on that date, provided the Participant is eligible to participate in the Plan on that date and has not elected to terminate participation in the Plan.
(e)
            
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, the acquisition of Common Stock through participation in the Plan for any Purchase Period shall neither limit nor require the acquisition of Common Stock by a Participant in any subsequent Purchase Period.
(a)
            
An eligible Employee may become a Participant in the Plan by completing a subscription agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit "A" to this Plan, whether in hard copy or in electronic form, authorizing payroll deductions and submitting it with the designated payroll office of the Company at least fifteen (15) days prior to the Enrollment Date for the Purchase Period in which such participation will commence, unless a later time for submitting the subscription agreement is set by the Plan Administrator for all eligible Employees with respect to a given Purchase Period.
(b)
           
Payroll deductions for a Participant shall commence with the first payroll period following the Enrollment Date and shall end on the last complete payroll period during the Purchase Period, unless sooner terminated by the Participant as provided in Section 10.
(a)
            
At the time a Participant files a subscription agreement, such Participant shall elect to have payroll deductions made during the Purchase Period in amounts between one percent (1%) and not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the Compensation which such Participant receives during the Purchase Period.
(b)
           
All payroll deductions made for a Participant shall be credited to such Participant's account under the Plan and will be withheld in whole percentages only. A Participant may not make any additional payments into such account, except as may be required to comply with the laws of certain non-U.S. jurisdictions where payroll deductions may be prohibited by law.
(c)
            
A Participant may discontinue participation in the Plan as provided in Section 10, or may decrease the rate of payroll deductions during the Purchase Period by completing and filing with the Company a new subscription agreement authorizing a decrease in the payroll deduction rate. The decrease in rate shall be effective with the first full payroll period commencing fifteen (15) days after the Company's receipt of the new subscription agreement unless the Company elects to process a given change in participation more quickly. A Participant may increase the rate of payroll deductions for a future Purchase Period by filing with the Company a new subscription agreement
 
5
 
 
authorizing an increase in the payroll deduction rate within fifteen (15) days (unless the Company elects to process a given change in participation more quickly) before the commencement of the upcoming Purchase Period. A Participant's subscription agreement shall remain in effect for successive Purchase Periods unless terminated as provided in Section 10. The Plan Administrator shall be authorized to limit the number of payroll deduction rate changes during any Purchase Period.
(d)
           
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and Section 3(b) herein, a Participant's payroll deductions may be decreased to 0% at such time during any Accrual Period which is scheduled to end during the current calendar year (the "Current Accrual Period") that the aggregate of all payroll deductions which were previously used to purchase stock under the Plan in a prior Accrual Period which ended during that calendar year plus all payroll deductions accumulated with respect to the Current Accrual Period equal $22,500. Payroll deductions shall recommence at the rate provided in such Participant's subscription agreement at the beginning of the first Accrual Period which is scheduled to end in the following calendar year, unless terminated by the Participant as provided in Section 10.
(a)
            
On the Enrollment Date, each Participant in such Purchase Period shall be granted an option to purchase on each Exercise Date of such Purchase Period (at the applicable Purchase Price) up to a number of shares of the Common Stock determined by dividing such Participant's payroll deductions accumulated prior to such Exercise Date by the applicable Purchase Price; provided (i) that such purchase shall be subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 3(b) and 12 hereof, and (ii) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock a Participant will be permitted to purchase in any Accrual Period will be two thousand (2,000) shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 18 hereof. Exercise of the option shall occur as provided in Section 8, unless the Participant has withdrawn pursuant to Section 10, and the option, to the extent not exercised, shall expire on the last day of the Purchase Period.
(b)
           
The Company may, in its sole discretion, provide matching grants in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner (in whole or partial shares) of Common Stock to Participants who satisfy specified ongoing holding period requirements with respect to shares purchased hereunder upon such terms and conditions as are determined from time to time by the Plan Administrator.
Unless a Participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 10 below, such Participant's option for the purchase of shares will be exercised automatically on each Exercise Date, and the maximum number of shares (including fractional shares) subject to the option shall be purchased for such Participant at the applicable Purchase Price with the accumulated payroll deductions in such Participant's account. The Plan Administrator shall be authorized to establish procedures for the handling of fractional shares, including the distribution of cash in lieu thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
 
6
 
 
any amount remaining in the Participant's account following the purchase of shares on the Exercise Date due to the application of Section 423 (b) (8) of the Code, shall be returned to the Participant. During a Participant's lifetime, a Participant's option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by such Participant.
Upon receipt of a request from a Participant after each Exercise Date on which a purchase of shares occurs, the Company shall arrange the delivery to such Participant, as promptly as practicable, of a certificate representing the shares purchased upon exercise of such Participant's option. The shares purchased under the Plan may also be delivered in uncertificated form by way of an electronic transfer to the brokerage account of participant.
(a)
            
A Participant may withdraw all, but not less than all of the payroll deductions credited to such Participant's account and not yet used to exercise such Participant's option under the Plan at any time by giving at least fifteen (15) days prior written notice to the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit "B" to this Plan, whether in hard copy or electronic form. All of the Participant's payroll deductions credited to such Participant's account will be paid to such Participant as promptly as practicable after receipt of notice of withdrawal, such Participant's option for the Purchase Period will be automatically terminated, and no further payroll deductions will be made during the Purchase Period. If a Participant withdraws from a Purchase Period, payroll deductions will not resume at the beginning of the succeeding Purchase Period unless the Participant delivers a new subscription agreement to the Company.
(b)
           
Upon a Participant's ceasing to be an Employee for any reason or upon termination of a Participant's employment relationship (as described in Section 2(j)), the payroll deductions credited to such Participant's account during the Purchase Period, but not yet used to purchase shares will be returned to such Participant or, in the case of such Participant's death, to the person or persons entitled thereto under Section 14, and such Participant's option will be automatically terminated.
No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions credited to a Participant's account under the Plan under any circumstances or at any time.
(a)
            
The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which shall be made available for sale or as a matching grant under the Plan shall be eight million (8,000,000) shares, subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company as provided for in Section 18. If on a given Exercise Date, the number of shares with respect to which options are to be exercised exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining
 
7
 
 
available for purchase among the Participants in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as it shall determine to be equitable.
(b)
           
A Participant will have no interest or voting right in shares covered by such Participant's option until such shares are actually purchased on such Participant's behalf in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Plan. No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date of such purchase.
(c)
            
Shares to be delivered to a Participant under the Plan will be registered in the name of the Participant or in the name of the Participant and such Participant's spouse.
The Plan shall be administered by the Board or a committee of members of the Board appointed by the Board. The Board or its committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary authority to construe, interpret and apply the terms of the Plan, to determine eligibility and to adjudicate all disputed claims filed under the Plan. Every finding, decision and determination made by the Board or its committee shall, to the full extent permitted by law, be final and binding upon all persons.
(a)
            
Each Participant will file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any shares and cash, if any, from the Participant's account under the Plan in the event of such Participant's death. If a Participant is married and the designated beneficiary is not the spouse, spousal consent shall be required for such designation to be effective.
(b)
           
Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the Participant (and such Participant's spouse, if any) at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of a Participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such Participant's death, the Company shall deliver such shares and/or cash to the executor or administrator of the estate of the Participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Plan Administrator), the Plan Administrator, in its discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the Participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Plan Administrator, then to such other person as the Plan Administrator may designate.
Neither payroll deductions credited to a Participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or as provided in Section 14 hereof) by the Participant, nor shall it be subject to attachment or other legal process of whatever nature. Provided, however,
 
8
 
 
that the shares purchased under the Plan may also be delivered in uncertificated form by way of an electronic transfer to the brokerage account of participant. Any such attempt at assignment, attachment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without effect, except that the Plan Administrator may treat such act as an election to withdraw funds from a Purchase Period in accordance with Section 10.
All payroll deductions received along with any other funds held by the Company under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions or funds.
Individual accounts will be maintained for each Participant in the Plan. Statements of account will be given to Participants at least annually, which statements will set forth the amounts of payroll deductions, the Purchase Price, the number of shares purchased and the remaining cash balance, if any.
(a)
            
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the Reserves, as well as the Purchase Price, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other similar event resulting in an increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock. Such adjustment shall be made by the Plan Administrator, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided for herein, no issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an option. The Plan Administrator may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole discretion, make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option, in the event the Company effects one or more reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights offerings or other increases or reductions of shares of its outstanding Common Stock.
(b)
           
Corporate Transactions
. In the event of a proposed Corporate Transaction, each option under the Plan shall be assumed by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless the Plan Administrator, in the exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption, determines to shorten the Purchase Period then in progress by setting a new Exercise Date (the "New Exercise Date"). If the Plan Administrator shortens the Purchase Period then in progress in lieu of assumption in the event of a Corporate Transaction, the Plan Administrator shall notify each Participant in writing, at least ten (10) business days prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for the Participant's option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that
either
:
 
9
 
 
 
(1)
           
the Participant's option will be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date the Participant has withdrawn from the Purchase Period as provided in Section 10; or
(2)
           
the Company shall pay to the Participant on the New Exercise Date an amount in cash, cash equivalents, or property as determined by the Plan Administrator that is equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the Fair Market Value of the shares subject to the option over (ii) the Purchase Price due had the Participant's option been exercised automatically under Subsection (b)(1) above. In addition, all remaining accumulated payroll deduction amounts shall be returned to the Participant.
(c)
            
For purposes of this Section 18, an option granted under the Plan shall be deemed to be assumed if, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, the option is replaced with a comparable option with respect to shares of capital stock of the successor corporation or Parent thereof. The determination of option comparability shall be made by the Plan Administrator prior to the Corporate Transaction and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons.
(a)
            
The Plan Administrator may at any time and for any reason terminate or amend the Plan. Except as provided in Section 18 or this Section 19, no such termination can affect options previously granted, provided that a Purchase Period may be terminated by the Plan Administrator on any Exercise Date if the Plan Administrator determines that the termination of the Purchase Period is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. Except as provided in Section 18 or this Section 19, no amendment may make any change in any option theretofore granted which adversely affects the rights of any Participant. To the extent necessary to comply with Section 423 of the Code (or any successor rule or provision or any other applicable law or regulation), the Company shall obtain stockholder approval in such a manner and to such a degree as required.
(b)
           
Without stockholder consent and without regard to whether any Participant rights may be considered to have been "adversely affected," the Plan Administrator shall be entitled to change the Purchase Periods, limit the frequency and/or number of changes in the amount withheld during Purchase Periods, establish the exchange ratio applicable to amounts withheld in a currency other than U.S. dollars, establish additional terms, conditions, rules or procedures to accommodate the rules or laws of applicable foreign jurisdictions, permit payroll withholding in excess of the amount designated by a Participant in order to adjust for delays or mistakes in the Company's processing of properly completed withholding elections, establish reasonable waiting and adjustment periods and/or accounting and crediting procedures to ensure that amounts applied toward the purchase of Common Stock for each Participant properly correspond with amounts withheld from the Participant's Compensation, and establish such other limitations or procedures as the Plan Administrator determines in its sole discretion advisable and which are consistent with the Plan.
 
10
 
 
 
(c)
            
On December 13, 2006, the Board approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan to (i) increase the maximum number of shares which shall be made available for sale or as a matching grant under the Plan to eight million (8,000,000) shares, (ii) extend the term of the Plan to January 31, 2018, and (iii) remove, for Purchase Periods occurring on and after the date the Board approved such amendment and restatement, the provision that
Employees will not be eligible to participate in the Plan for any relevant Purchase Period if such Employee's customary employment is less than 20 hours per week. The increase in the maximum number of shares available requires the approval of the Company's stockholders.
All notices or other communications by a Participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Plan Administrator at the location, or by the person, designated by the Plan Administrator for the receipt thereof.
Shares shall not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance. As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Company may require the Participant to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned applicable provisions of law. In addition, no options shall be exercised or shares issued hereunder before the Plan shall have been approved by stockholders of the Company in accordance with Section 423 of the Code.
The Plan shall become effective upon January 1, 1998. It shall continue until January 31, 2018 unless sooner terminated under Section 19. The first Effective Date under the Plan shall be determined as set forth in Section 2(i).
The Plan does not, directly or indirectly, create any right for the benefit of any employee or class of employees to purchase any shares under the Plan, or create in any employee or class of employees any right with respect to continuation of employment by the Company or a Designated Parent or Subsidiary, and it shall not be deemed to interfere in any way with such employer's right to terminate, or otherwise modify, an employee's employment at any time.
 
11
 
 
 
The provisions of the Plan shall, in accordance with its terms, be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, all successors of each Participant, including, without limitation, such Participant's estate and the executors, administrators or trustees thereof, heirs and legatees, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of creditors of such Participant.
The laws of the State of Delaware (excluding that body of law pertaining to its conflicts of law) will govern all matters relating to this Plan except to the extent it is superseded by the laws of the United States.
 
12
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
1998 EMPLOYEE STOCK INVESTMENT PLAN
SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT
 
I, _____________________________, hereby elect to participate in the Franklin Resources, Inc. 1998 Employee Stock Investment Plan (the "Plan"), for the Purchase Period __________________ to __________________, and hereby subscribe to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock in accordance with this Subscription Agreement and the Plan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein are used as defined in the Plan. I have received a copy of the complete Plan and understand that my participation in the Plan is in all respects subject to the terms of the Plan.
I hereby authorize payroll deductions in the amount of ________% of my Compensation from each paycheck during the Purchase Period. I understand that this amount must not be less than one percent (1%) and not more than ten percent (10%) of my Compensation during the Offering Period and that no fractional percentages are permitted. I further understand that:
 
 
13
 
 
 
Until I request the delivery of certificates, shares purchased for me under the Plan shall be owned by me beneficially and shall be held in street name of the nominee of the third party administrator selected by the Plan Administrator to administer the Plan records or in such other nominee name as shall be designated from time to time by the Plan Administrator. Upon delivery, shares should be issued in the name(s) of (name of employee or employee and spouse only):__________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
 
In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due to me under the Plan
NAME: (Please print)
 
 
I understand that if I dispose (an "Early Disposition") of any shares received by me pursuant to the Plan within two (2) years after the Enrollment Date or within one (1) year after the Exercise Date for such shares (the "Minimum Holding Period"), I will be treated for federal income tax purposes as having received ordinary compensation income at the time of such disposition in an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value
 
14
 
 
of the shares on the Exercise Date over the price which I paid for the shares, regardless of whether I disposed of the shares at a price less than their Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date. The remainder of the gain or loss, if any, recognized on such disposition will be treated as capital gain or loss. I hereby agree to notify the Company in writing within thirty (30) days after the date of any such Early Disposition.
If I dispose of shares purchased under the Plan at any time after expiration of such Minimum Holding Period, I understand that I will be treated for federal income tax purposes as having received compensation income only to the extent of an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the excess of the Fair Market Value of the shares at the time of such disposition over the purchase price which I paid for the shares under the option, or (2) ten percent (10%) of the Fair Market Value of shares on the Enrollment Date. The remainder of the gain or loss, if any, recognized on such disposition will be treated as capital gain or loss.
I will make adequate provision for federal, state or other tax withholding obligations, if any, which arise upon any disposition of the Common Stock. The Company may, but will not be obligated to, withhold from my compensation the amount necessary to meet any applicable withholding obligation including any withholding necessary to make available to the Company any tax deductions or benefits attributable to the sale or Early Disposition of Common Stock by me.
I understand that my ability to participate in the Plan is subject to my consent to access, and acknowledgement of having accessed, the Plan prospectus in connection with the Form S-8 registration statement for the Plan, any updates thereto, and the Plan (collectively, the "Plan Documents") in electronic form through the People Page on the Company's Intranet. By signing below and participating in the Plan, I: (i) consent to access electronic copies (instead of receiving paper copies) of the Plan Documents via the Company's Intranet; (ii) represent that I have access to the Company's Intranet; (iii) acknowledge receipt of the electronic copies, or that I am already in possession of paper copies, of the Plan Documents and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders; (iv) acknowledge that I am familiar with and agree to participate in the Plan subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan Documents and (v) consent to access and receive in the future electronic copies via the Company's Intranet or otherwise of all documents made a part of, or incorporated by reference into, the Plan Documents in the future as well as any other reports, proxy statements and other communications distributed in the future to security holders of the Company generally.
I acknowledge that I may receive, without charge, upon written or oral request, paper copies of any or all of the Plan Documents, documents incorporated by reference in the Form S-8 registration statement for the Plan, and the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders or any other documents described in the preceding paragraph by requesting them from Stock Administration at the Company, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403-1906. Telephone (650) 525-8037. I further acknowledge that I may also withdraw my consent to receive any or all documents electronically by notifying Stock Administration at the above address in writing.
 
15
 
 
 
I understand that the tax information contained herein is only a summary of some of the basic provisions of the Code and related regulations applicable to the Plan in effect as of the date of execution of this Subscription Agreement and is subject to change. I further understand that the Company is not giving tax advice and that I should consult a tax advisor of my choice concerning the tax implications of the purchase and sale of stock under the Plan.
I hereby agree to be bound by the terms of the Plan and acknowledge that the effectiveness of this Subscription Agreement is dependent upon my eligibility to participate in the Plan.
SPOUSE'S SIGNATURE
 
 
DATE: _____________________________
                          
______________________________
 
 
16
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
1998 EMPLOYEE STOCK INVESTMENT PLAN
NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL
The undersigned Participant in the Purchase Period of the
Franklin Resources, Inc. 1998 Employee Stock Investment Plan which began on _________________, hereby notifies the Company that such Participant hereby withdraws from the Purchase Period. Such Participant hereby directs the Company to pay to the undersigned as promptly as practicable all the payroll deductions credited such Participant's account with respect to such Purchase Period. The undersigned understands and agrees that the option for such Purchase Period will be automatically terminated. The undersigned understands further that no further payroll deductions will be made for the purchase of shares in the current Purchase Period and the undersigned shall be eligible to participate in succeeding Purchase Periods only by delivering to the Company a new Subscription Agreement.
 
Name and Address
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED ANNUAL INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
(amended and restated December 13, 2006)
(amended and restated December 16, 2005)
(amended and restated September 22, 2005)
(amended and restated December 16, 2004)
(amended and restated December 11, 2003)
 
I. PURPOSE
 
Franklin Resources, Inc. has established this Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan for Principals and Associates (as hereinafter defined) to reward the contributions to the Company (as hereinafter defined) made by Principals and Associates by providing them an opportunity to share in the organization's annual performance results. Through these incentives, the Company intends to attract, retain, and motivate eligible employees to achieve the highest levels of performance results in the financial services business.
 
II. DEFINITIONS
 
When used in this plan document, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
 
2.1 "Associates' Pool" means the portion of the Award Pool allocated to Incentive Awards for Associates.
 
2.2  "Award Pool" means the total dollars available for funding Incentive Awards under the Plan for an applicable Plan Year. The Award Pool is comprised of the Associates' Pool and the Principals' Pool.
 
2.3  "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. as described in Section 9.1 below.
 
2.4  "Company" means Franklin Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.
 
2.5  "Incentive Award" means the actual current value of an award to a Participant, regardless of the form of the award, determined by the Committee during or following the end of the Plan Year, as applicable.
 
2.6  "Option" means the grant of a right to purchase Stock at a specified exercise price in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with the right to purchase such shares of Stock subject to the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.7  "Participant" means all Principals and Associates who have been determined by the Committee to be Participants, except employees who participate in commission-based incentive plans or who are non-exempt employees.
 
2.8  "Plan" means the Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Compensation Plan as set forth in this document, as amended from time to time.
 
 
 
 
2.9  "Pre-Tax Operating Income" (hereafter "PTOI") means the net operating income of the Company, exclusive of passive income and calculated before non-operating interest, taxes, extraordinary items and certain special items (such as special compensation payouts on account of a merger) and before the accrual of Incentive Awards under the Plan and awards under the Company's 2004 Key Executive Incentive Compensation Plan or any successor plan.
 
2.10  "Plan Year" means the 12-month period beginning on the first day of each fiscal year of the Company.
 
2.11 "Principals' Pool" means the portion of the Award Pool allocated to Incentive Awards for Principals.
 
2.12 "Restricted Stock Award" means the grant of shares of Stock in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with such shares of Stock subject to a risk of forfeiture or other restrictions that will lapse based on the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.13 "Restricted Stock Unit Award" means the grant of a right to receive Stock upon the vesting of the units in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with such right to receive Stock subject to a risk of forfeiture or other restrictions that will lapse based on the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.14 "SAR" means the grant of a right to receive, in cash or Stock (as determined by the Committee), value equal to (or otherwise based on) the excess of (a) the fair market value of a specified number of shares of Stock at the time of exercise over (b) a specified exercise price, in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with the right to receive such value in cash or Stock subject to the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.15 "Stock" means Franklin Resources, Inc. common stock reserved for issuance under the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan.
 
2.16 "Stock Unit Award" means the grant of a right to receive Stock upon the vesting of the units in recognition of and as a reward for the past efforts and contributions of the Participant on behalf of the Company, with such right to receive Stock not subject to a risk of forfeiture or other restrictions that will lapse based on the completion of service by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.
 
2.17 "Target Award" means a potential bonus opportunity for a Participant budgeted at the beginning of the Plan Year.
 
III. PARTICIPATION
 
3.1 All Principals and Associates employed by the Company at the beginning of the Plan Year are eligible to be Participants during that Plan Year. The Committee may, in its sole discretion and if appropriate, determine annually if, and if so, which, employees are Principals. All eligible exempt staff not determined as Principals are Associates. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, add exempt employees hired during a Plan Year as either Principals or Associates and may adjust Target Awards for such persons based upon such interim employment.
 
3.2 A non-exempt employee who becomes exempt during a Plan Year shall be eligible for an Incentive Award from the Associates' Pool, in the Committee's sole discretion.
 
3.3 A Participant who changes status (e.g., Associate to Principal) during a Plan Year shall continue in his former status for that Plan Year, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
2
 
 
 
3.4 A Participant's Incentive Award will be based upon an evaluation of a Participant's overall performance, including the successful accomplishment of annual goals and objectives, as well as other performance factors. A Participant who receives a formal performance appraisal and whose overall evaluation is at less than the median level of performance relative to such Participant's peers still remains eligible for an Incentive Award, but the Incentive Award may be reduced, even to zero. Participants on written warning may be eligible for an Incentive Award at the sole discretion of the Committee, but the Incentive Award may be reduced, even to zero.
 
IV. AWARD POOL FUNDING AND INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
 
4.1 For each Plan Year, the Committee shall:
 
(a) Determine the percentage, not to exceed Twenty Percent (20%), if any, of PTOI that will be allocated to the Award Pool at various levels of Company performance measured by changes in PTOI from the prior year. The Committee may also determine if in its opinion prevailing circumstance dictates that the Award Pool for particular identified groups of Principals and/or Associates shall be based upon the PTOI of particular identified subsidiary or subsidiaries of the Company. The determinations made by the Committee may be subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. if the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, deems such review and approval to be appropriate.
 
(b) Determine, if appropriate, the allocation of the Award Pool of the Company, and any identified subsidiary or subsidiaries of the Company as described in (a) above, between the Associates' Pool(s) and the Principals' Pool(s).
 
4.2 After consideration of recommendations made by management personnel, the Committee may generally determine the amount of Target Awards for Participants under the Plan. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, advise Participants of particular Target Awards or ranges of Target Awards at any time during the Plan Year.
 
4.3 The actual amounts allocated to the Award Pool, the Associates' Pool(s) and/or the Principals' Pool(s) may be determined and/or revised at any time during or after the end of each Plan Year, based upon actual or projected Company performance and PTOI.
 
4.4 Actual Incentive Awards may be determined during or following the end of each Plan Year. The amount of any Incentive Awards determined and paid prior to the end of a Plan Year shall be credited against the Award Pool for such Plan Year so that the net amount remaining in the Award Pool is available for Incentive Awards determined and paid after the end of such Plan Year. Actual Incentive Awards may vary from the Target Awards depending on the PTOI allocated or projected to be allocated to the Award Pool and a Participant's individual performance.
 
4.5 The Principals' Pool, if any, will be allocated among any or all Principals on the basis of a Participant's individual performance and based upon the accomplishment of such Participant's goals and objectives for the Plan Year. No Principals are guaranteed a payout from the Principals' Pool.
 
4.6 The Associates' Pool will be allocated among any or all Associates on the basis of a Participant's individual performance and based upon the accomplishment of such Participant's goals and objectives for the Plan Year. No Associates are guaranteed a payout from the Associates' Pool.
 
4.7 To promote the highest levels of individual performance, there is no minimum or maximum which applies to individual Incentive Awards of any Participant. Amounts not allocated as Incentive Awards do not carry over to the next Plan Year, and may be used for distribution as incentive compensation to employees who are not Participants in the Plan.
 
3
 
 
 
4.8 Notwithstanding a Participant's individual performance and anything to the contrary in this Plan, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, increase or decrease (even to zero) the Incentive Award payable to a Participant.
 
V. PAYMENT OF ANNUAL AWARDS
 
5.1 Incentive Awards may, in the Committee's discretion, be paid in the following time and manner:
 
(a) Incentive Awards may be paid in cash or in a combination of cash and grants of Stock, Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards, Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards under the 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan, and shares of investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds, subject to restrictions and vesting, if any, determined by the Committee to be appropriate. Incentive Awards paid in Stock, Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards, Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards under the 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan shall also be subject to the limit on the maximum number of shares that may be issued under such plan and any additional limitations on the maximum number of shares that may be awarded to any individual in any fiscal or calendar year under such plan.
 
(b) At least 25% of the Incentive Award will be paid in cash at such time during or after the end of the Plan Year as determined by the Committee. The balance (if any) of the cash portion of an Incentive Award shall be paid at such later time and in such manner as the Committee determines. Participants shall be notified in writing as to the date and time of payment of any such deferred portion of the Incentive Award.
 
(c) Stock, Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards and shares of investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds awarded as part of an Incentive Award shall be distributed at such time during or after the end of the Plan Year as determined by the Committee. The number of shares of Stock, units or shares of investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Investments funds subject to such Incentive Awards as well as the other terms of such Incentive Awards shall be determined by the Committee and, if applicable, in accordance with the 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan.
 
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the payment of any Incentive Awards determined by the Committee to provide for a "deferral of compensation" (within the meaning of Section 1.409A-1(b) of the proposed Treasury regulations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and any successor thereto) shall be completed no later than two and one-half (2) months following the end of the calendar year in which such Incentive Awards are earned.
 
5.2 Application of Code Section 409A.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Company, in its sole discretion and without Participant consent, may amend or modify the Plan in any manner to provide for the application and effects of Section 409A of the Code (relating to deferred compensation arrangements) and any related regulatory or administrative guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company shall have the authority to delay the payment of any benefits described under the Plan to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate to comply with Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code (relating to payments made to certain "key employees" of certain publicly-traded companies) and in such event, any such payments to which a Participant would otherwise be entitled during the six (6) month period immediately following his or her separation from service will be paid on the first business day following the expiration of such six (6) month period.
 
 
4
 
 
 
VI. PAYMENT IN EVENT OF DEATH, DISABILITY, LEAVE OF ABSENCE OR RETIREMENT
 
6.1 Death of Participant.
 
A Participant who dies is entitled to a pro-rated Incentive Award based on performance up to the last day worked. Payment shall be made in cash in a single payment during or as soon as practical following the end of the Plan Year in which death occurred. If the Participant dies following the end of a Plan Year but before an Incentive Award for that year has been paid, the Participant's full Incentive Award shall be paid in cash in a single payment when it would otherwise have been paid. Payment of Incentive Awards on account of death shall be paid to the person designated by the Participant as beneficiary under this Plan. If there is no such designation or the designated beneficiary fails to survive the Participant, payment shall be made to the Participant's spouse or if there is none, the Participant's estate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.1 with respect to the payment of Incentive Awards, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount) or (b) decrease (even to zero) the Participant's Incentive Award.
 
6.2 Disability.
 
A Participant who ceases to be an employee on account of disability, as a result of which the Participant shall be eligible for payments under Company long-term disability insurance policies, shall be entitled to receive a pro-rated Incentive Award based on performance up to the last day worked. Payment shall be made in cash in a single installment during or as soon as practical following the end of the fiscal year in which employment terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.2 with respect to the payment of Incentive Awards, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount) or (b) decrease (even to zero) the Participant's Incentive Award.
 
6.3 Leave of Absence.
 
The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine Incentive Awards, if any, to be paid to Participants on leave of absence for any portion of the Plan Year.
 
6.4 Retirement.
 
A Participant who retires during the Plan Year is eligible to receive a pro-rated Incentive Award based on performance to the date of retirement in cash in a single payment during or as soon as practical following the end of the fiscal year in which the Participant retires. A Participant has "retired" for purposes of this Plan if he terminates employment with the Company after reaching age 55 with at least 10 years of service to the Company, including service to any entity that is acquired by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.4 with respect to the payment of Incentive Awards, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount) or (b) decrease (even to zero) the Participant's Incentive Award.
 
VII. PAYMENT IN EVENT OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
 
7.1 Involuntary Termination of Employment.
 
(a) If a Participant's employment is terminated by the Company as a result of the Company's dissatisfaction with the job related activities of the Participant or conviction of the Participant of a felony, the Participant shall forfeit any rights to any unpaid Incentive Awards under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) pay the Participant a pro-rated Incentive Award based upon performance during the Plan Year to the date of termination or (ii) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount).
 
 
5
 
 
 
(b) If a Participant's employment is terminated for reasons other than those described in Sections 6 and 7.1(a) above, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) pay the Participant a pro-rated Incentive Award based upon performance during the Plan Year to the date of termination or (ii) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount).
 
7.2 Voluntary Termination of Employment.
 
If a Participant voluntarily resigns from employment at the Company during the Plan Year, no Incentive Awards will be paid. The Participant shall forfeit the right to any Incentive Awards for the current performance year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (a) pay the Participant a pro-rated Incentive Award based upon performance during the Plan Year to the date of termination or (b) pay the Participant's full Incentive Award (or any greater amount).
 
VIII. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION
 
8.1 Amendment.
 
The Committee reserves the right in its discretion to amend this Plan or any Incentive Award(s) at any time in whole or in part, provided, however, that no amendment shall result in the forfeiture or cancellation of any Participant's Incentive Award(s) earned as of the end of the fiscal year immediately preceding the date the Committee adopts the amendment, unless otherwise agreed to by the affected Participant(s).
 
8.2 Termination.
 
The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time. Termination shall not result in the forfeiture or cancellation of any Participant's Incentive Award(s) which have been determined but not yet paid, unless otherwise agreed to by the affected Participant(s).
 
IX. ADMINISTRATION
 
9.1 Administration of the Plan.
 
This Plan has been adopted by the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. and shall be administered by the Committee.
 
(a) The Committee shall meet at such times and places and upon such notice as the chairperson determines in consultation with the other Committee members. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. Any acts by the Committee may be taken at any meeting at which a quorum is present and shall be by majority vote of those members entitled to vote. Additionally, any acts reduced to writing or approved in writing by all the members of the Committee shall be valid acts of the Committee.
 
(b) Among the administrative responsibilities of the Committee shall be the determination of Principals, if any, and Associates, Target Awards, if applicable, and Incentive Awards. This may be accomplished by adopting specific methods of determining the Target Awards and/or Incentive Awards which are then administered by management personnel of the Company.
 
(c) The Committee shall have the sole authority, in its absolute discretion, to adopt, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations as, in its opinion, may be advisable in the administration of the Plan, to construe and interpret the Plan, the rules and regulations, and any instruments evidencing Incentive Awards and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All decisions, determinations, and interpretations of the Committee shall be binding on all Participants.
 
6
 
 
 
(d) The Plan is intended to meet the requirements of the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall be administered and construed accordingly.
 
9.2 Non-alienation of Benefits.
 
No benefit under this Plan may be sold, assigned, transferred, conveyed, hypothecated, encumbered, anticipated, or otherwise disposed of, and any attempt to do so shall be void. No such benefit shall, prior to receipt thereof by a Participant, be in any manner subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of such Participant.
 
9.3 No Limitation of Rights.
 
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to limit in any way the Company's general personnel policies and procedures particularly with respect to the right of the Company to terminate a Participant's employment at any time for any reason whatsoever with or without cause; nor shall it be evidence of any agreement or understanding, express or implied, that the Company (a) will employ a Participant in any particular position, (b) will ensure participation in any incentive programs, or (c) will grant any awards for such programs.
 
9.4 Applicable Law.
 
The provisions of the Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, with the exception of Delaware's conflict of laws provisions.
 
9.5 Mandatory Arbitration.
 
As part of this Plan, the Company is implementing an alternative dispute resolution procedure for its employees. In the event there is any dispute arising out of unlawful harassment, discrimination or termination of employment with the Company, which the parties are unable to resolve through direct discussion or mediation, regardless of the kind or type of dispute, the Participant and the Company agree to submit all such disputes exclusively to final and binding arbitration pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Arbitration Act, or, if inapplicable, the provisions of applicable state law, or any successor or replacement statutes, upon a request submitted in writing to the Human Resources Department within the applicable statutory limits or the statute of limitations. Any failure to timely request arbitration shall constitute a waiver of all rights to raise any claims in any forum arising out of any dispute that was subject to arbitration. The limitations period set forth in this paragraph shall not be subject to tolling, equitable or otherwise. Any agreement to arbitrate disputes contained in a securities registration application shall take precedence over this Section 9.5. All substantive rights guaranteed under the statutes are still recognized through arbitration, and arbitration is merely a substituted forum for dispute resolutions.
 
* * *
 
This Plan was originally approved by the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. on January 19, 1994. The stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. approved an amendment of the Plan on January 24, 1995. The Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on December 11, 2003 to (a) provide that up to 20% of PTOI may be allocated to the Award Pool by the Committee and (b) give broad discretion to the Committee in determining the amount of Incentive Awards payable to Participants in the Plan, which amendment and restatement was approved by the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. on January 29, 2004. The Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on December 16, 2004 to provide that Incentive Awards may be paid in Options, SARs, Stock Unit Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards, which amendment and restatement was not subject to the approval of the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. The Board of
 
7
 
 
Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on September 22, 2005 principally to (a) provide that the allocation of actual amounts to the Award Pool, Associates' Pool(s) and/or Principals' Pool(s) for a Plan Year and the determination and payment of actual Incentive Awards for a Plan Year may be made in advance of the completion of such Plan Year and (b) make various conforming and other technical changes to the Plan, which amendment and restatement was not subject to the approval of the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. The Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on December 16, 2005 principally to change the governing law of the Plan to Delaware, which amendment and restatement was not subject to the approval of the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. The Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan on December 13, 2006 principally to make clarifying and technical changes to the Plan, which amendment and restatement was not subject to the approval of the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc.
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
 
 
8
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
2004 KEY EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
 
SECTION 1
ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE
 
1.1
Purpose
. Franklin Resources, Inc. has established this Franklin Resources, Inc. 2004 Key Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is intended to increase stockholder value and the success of the Company (as defined below) by motivating key employees (a) to perform to the best of their abilities and (b) to achieve the Company's objectives. The Plan's goals are to be achieved by providing such key employees with incentive awards based on the achievement of goals relating to performance of the Company and its individual business units. The Plan is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code (as defined below).
 
1.2
Effective Date
. The Plan became effective as of December 11, 2003, following approval by a majority of the shares of common stock of Franklin Resources, Inc. which were present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the 2004 annual meeting of stockholders. As long as the Plan remains in effect, it shall be resubmitted to stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. as necessary to enable the Plan to continue to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code (as defined below).
 
SECTION 2
DEFINITIONS
 
The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
 
2.1 "
Actual Award
" means, as to any Plan Year, the actual award (if any) payable to a Participant for the Plan Year. Actual Award is determined by the Payout Formula for the Plan Year, subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.6 to reduce the award otherwise determined by the Payout Formula.
 
2.2
"Award Pool"
means the total dollars (if any) designated to fund Actual Awards payable for any Plan Year.
 
2.3 "
Base Salary
" means as to any Plan Year, 100% of the Participant's annualized salary rate on the last day of the Plan Year. Such Base Salary shall be before both (a) deductions for taxes or benefits, and (b) deferrals of compensation pursuant to Company-sponsored plans.
 
2.4
"Beneficiary"
means the person(s) or entity(ies) designated to receive payment of an Actual Award in the event of a Participant's death in accordance with Section 4.5 of the Plan. The Beneficiary designation shall be effective when it is submitted in writing to and acknowledged by the Committee during the Participant's lifetime on a Beneficiary designation form provided by the Committee.
The submission of a new Beneficiary designation form shall cancel all prior Beneficiary designations.
 
2.5 "
Board
" means the Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc.
 
2.6 "
Code
" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific Section of the Code shall include such Section, any valid regulation promulgated thereunder, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such Section or regulation.
 
 
 
 
2.7 "
Committee
" means the committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan. The Committee shall consist of no fewer than two members of the Board. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Each member of the Committee shall qualify as an "outside director" under Code Section 162(m). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of a Committee member to qualify as an "outside director" shall not invalidate the payment of any Actual Award under the Plan.
 
2.8 "
Company
" means Franklin Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries.
 
2.9 "
Determination Date
" means, as to any Plan Year, (a) the first day of the Plan Year, or (b) if later, the latest date possible which will not jeopardize the Plan's qualification as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m).
 
2.10 "
Disability
" means a permanent and total disability determined in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory standards adopted by the Committee from time to time.
 
2.11 "
Maximum Award
" means, as to any Participant for any Plan Year, ten million dollars ($10,000,000). The Maximum Award is the maximum amount which may be paid to a Participant for any Plan Year.
 
2.12 "
Participant
" means, as to any Plan Year, a key employee who has been selected by the Committee for participation in the Plan for that Plan Year.
 
2.13 "
Payout Formula
" means, as to any Plan Year, the formula or payout matrix established by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.5, below, in order to determine the Actual Awards (if any) to be paid to Participants. The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant.
 
2.14 "
Performance Goals
" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant for a Plan Year. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant shall provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) annual revenue; (b) budget comparisons; (c) Company stock price; (d) controllable profits; (e) Company earnings per share; (f) expense management; (g) improvements in capital structure; (h) net income; (i) net sales; (j) pre-tax operating income; (k) profit margins; (l) profitability of an identifiable business unit or product; (m) return on investments; (n) return on sales; (o) return on stockholders' equity; (p) total return to stockholders; and (q) performance of the Company relative to a peer group of companies on any of the foregoing measures. The Performance Goals may be applicable to the Company and/or any of its individual business units and may differ from Participant to Participant.
 
2.15 "
Plan Year
" means the fiscal year of the Company ending in 2004 and each succeeding fiscal year of the Company.
 
2.16
"Retirement"
means retirement from service to the Company after reaching age fifty-five (55) with at least ten (10) years of service to Franklin Resources, Inc. or a subsidiary of Franklin Resources, Inc., including service to any entity that is acquired by Franklin Resources, Inc. or a subsidiary of Franklin Resources, Inc.
 
2.17 "
Target Award
" means the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the Plan Year as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 3.4 and expressed either (a) as a percentage of his or her Base Salary or (b) as a percentage of the Award Pool.
 
 
2
 
 
 
SECTION 3
SELECTION OF PARTICIPANTS AND DETERMINATION OF AWARDS
 
3.1
Selection of Participants
. On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall select the key employees who shall be Participants for the Plan Year. In selecting Participants, the Committee shall choose employees who are likely to have a significant impact on the performance of the Company. Participation in the Plan is in the sole discretion of the Committee, and on a Plan Year by Plan Year basis. Accordingly, an employee who is a Participant for a given Plan Year in no way is guaranteed or assured of being selected for participation in any subsequent Plan Year or Plan Years.
 
3.2
Determination of Award Pool
. On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee may in its sole discretion establish an Award Pool for any Plan Year.
 
3.3
Determination of Performance Goals
. On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish the Performance Goals for each Participant for the Plan Year. Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing.
 
3.4
Determination of Target Awards
. On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Target Award for each Participant. Each Participant's Target Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing.
 
3.5
Determination of Payout Formula or Payout Formulae
. On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Payout Formula or Payout Formulae for purposes of determining the Actual Award (if any) payable to each Participant. Each Payout Formula shall (a) be in writing, (b) be based on a comparison of actual performance to the Performance Goals, (c) provide for the payment of a Participant's Target Award if the Performance Goals for the Plan Year are achieved, and (d) provide for an Actual Award greater than or less than the Participant's Target Award, depending upon the extent to which actual performance exceeds or falls below the Performance Goals. Notwithstanding the preceding, no participant's Actual Award under the Plan may exceed the Maximum Award.
 
3.6
Determination of Actual Awards.
After the end of each Plan Year, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant for the Plan Year were achieved or exceeded. The Actual Award for each Participant shall be determined by applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance which has been certified by the Committee. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may eliminate or reduce the Actual Award payable to any Participant below that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula.
 
3.7
Termination Prior to the Date the Actual Award for the Plan Year is Paid.
If a Participant terminates employment with the Company for any reason after the end of the applicable Plan Year but prior to the date the Actual Award for such Plan Year is paid, the Participant shall be entitled to the payment of the Actual Award for the Plan Year subject to reduction or elimination under Section 3.6 based on the circumstances surrounding such termination of employment.
 
3.8
Termination Prior to End of the Plan Year for Reasons other than Death, Disability or Retirement.
If a Participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of the applicable Plan Year for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, the Committee shall reduce the Participant's Actual Award proportionately based on the date of termination (and subject to further reduction or elimination under Section 3.6 based on the circumstances surrounding such termination of employment).
 
3.9
Termination Prior to the End of the Plan Year Due to Death, Disability or Retirement.
If a Participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of the applicable Plan Year due to death, Disability or Retirement, the Participant (or in the case of the Participant's death, the person who
 
3
 
 
acquired the right to payment of the Actual Award pursuant to Section 4.5) shall be entitled to the payment of the Actual Award for the Plan Year subject to reduction or elimination under Section 3.6.
 
3.10
Leave of Absence.
If a Participant is on a leave of absence at any time during a Plan Year, the Committee may reduce his or her Actual Award proportionately based on the duration of the leave of absence (and subject to further reduction or elimination under Section 3.6).
 
SECTION 4
PAYMENT OF AWARDS
 
4.1
Right to Receive Payment
. Each Actual Award that may become payable under the Plan shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant's claim of any right other than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be entitled.
 
4.2
Timing of Payment
. Payment of each Actual Award shall be made within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is two and a half (2
 1
/
2
) calendar months from the end of (i) a Participant's tax year that includes the applicable date during which the Award was earned, or (ii) the Plan Year that includes the applicable date during which the Award was earned.
 
4.3
Form of Payment
. Each Actual Award normally shall be paid in cash (or its equivalent) in a single lump sum. However, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may declare any Actual Award, in whole or in part, payable in the form of a stock bonus granted under the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan") or successor equity compensation plan (subject to the limit on the maximum number of shares that may be issued under the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan and any additional limitations on the maximum number of shares that may be awarded to any individual in any fiscal or calendar year under the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan, as applicable). The number of shares granted shall be determined by dividing (i) the cash amount of all or such portion of the Actual Award to be paid as a stock bonus, by (ii) the fair market value of a share of common stock of Franklin Resources, Inc. on the date that the cash payment of the Actual Award otherwise would have been made. For this purpose, "fair market value" shall be defined as provided in the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan. Any shares issued pursuant to a stock bonus granted under the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan may be either fully vested or subject to vesting.
 
4.4
Other Deferral of Actual Awards.
The Committee may establish one or more programs under the Plan to permit selected Participants the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of Actual Awards. The Committee may establish the election procedures, the timing of such elections, the mechanisms for payments of, and accrual of interest or other earnings, if any, on amounts so deferred, and such other terms, conditions, rules and procedures that the Committee deems advisable for the administration of any such deferral program.
 
4.5
Payment in the Event of Death
. If a Participant dies prior to the payment of an Actual Award earned by him or her for a prior Plan Year, the Actual Award shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary or if each person designated as a Beneficiary predeceases the Participant or dies prior to payment of an Actual Award, then the Committee shall direct the payment of such Actual Award to the Participant's estate.
 
SECTION 5
ADMINISTRATION
 
5.1
Committee is the Administrator
. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
 
 
4
 
 
 
5.2
Committee Authority
. The Committee shall have all discretion and authority necessary or appropriate to administer the Plan and to interpret the provisions of the Plan, consistent with qualification of the Plan as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m). Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration or application of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
 
5.3
Tax Withholding
. The Company shall withhold all applicable taxes from any payment, including any non-U.S., federal, state, and local taxes.
 
SECTION 6
GENERAL PROVISION
 
6.1
Nonassignability
. A Participant shall have no right to assign or transfer any interest under this Plan.
 
6.2
No Effect on Employment
. The establishment and subsequent operation of the Plan, including eligibility as a Participant, shall not be construed as conferring any legal or other rights upon any Participant for the continuation of his or her employment for any Plan Year or any other period. Generally, employment with the Company is on an at will basis only. Except as may be provided in an employment contract with the Participant, the Company expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and without regard to when during a Plan Year such exercise occurs, to terminate any Participant's employment without cause, and to treat him or her without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her as a Participant.
 
6.3
No Individual Liability
. No member of the Committee or the Board, or any officer of the Company, shall be liable for any determination, decision or action made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any award under the Plan.
 
6.4
Severability; Governing Law
. If any provision of the Plan is found to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall not affect the other provisions of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision has been omitted. The provisions of the Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, with the exception of California's conflict of laws provisions.
 
6.5
Affiliates of the Company
. Requirements referring to employment with the Company or payment of awards may, in the Committee's discretion, be performed through the Company or any affiliate of the Company.
 
6.6
Application of Code Section 409A
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Company, in its sole discretion and without Participant consent, may amend or modify the Plan in any manner to provide for the application and effects of Section 409A of the Code (relating to deferred compensation arrangements) and any related regulatory or administrative guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company shall have the authority to delay the payment of any benefits described under the Plan to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate to comply with Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code (relating to payments made to certain "key employees" of certain publicly-traded companies) and in such event, any such payments to which a Participant would otherwise be entitled during the six (6) month period immediately following his or her separation from service will be paid on the first business day following the expiration of such six (6) month period.
 
5
 
 
 
SECTION 7
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
 
7.1
Amendment and Termination
. The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason; provided, however, that if and to the extent required to ensure the Plan's qualification under Code Section 162(m), any such amendment shall be subject to stockholder approval.
 
Last amended as of December 13, 2006.
 
 
6
 
 
 


