FILE:BEN/BEN-8K-20070803163105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
This report updates certain information in the current report on Form 8-K of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "registrant") furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 26, 2007, which attached as Exhibit 99.1 the press release issued on July 26, 2007, announcing the registrant's preliminary financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007.
Subsequent to July 26, 2007, the registrant and certain subsidiaries resolved a previously disclosed litigation, which will be dismissed pursuant to stipulation. Estimated costs to the registrant associated with such litigation impact certain previously announced financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007, even though the litigation was resolved in the following quarter. Accordingly, set forth below are the registrant's updated preliminary condensed consolidated income statement results for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2007, reflecting such estimated litigation costs (compared to the previously announced preliminary results from our July 26, 2007 press release).
Franklin Resources, Inc.
Preliminary Condensed Consolidated Income Statements
Unaudited
(1)
As previously announced in the registrant's press release issued on July 26, 2007.
The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings (unless the registrant specifically states that the information in this particular report is incorporated by reference).
Forward-Looking Statements:
The financial results in this report are preliminary. Statements in this report regarding Franklin Resources, Inc., which are not historical facts, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors, some of which are listed below, that could cause the actual results and outcomes to differ materially from any future results or outcomes expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. These and other risks, uncertainties and other important factors are described in more detail in Franklin's recent filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, in Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Franklin's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, and Franklin's subsequent Form 10-Q filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


