FILE:BEN/BEN-8K-20080305122223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 31, 2008, the stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company"), at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's 2004 Key Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
The Plan was principally revised to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following summary describes the material features of the Plan, including the amendments, but is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan, attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Purpose of the Plan
The Plan provides the Company's key employees with the opportunity to earn incentive awards based on the achievement of goals relating to the performance of the Company and its business units. The Plan is intended to increase stockholder value and the success of the Company by motivating key employees to perform to the best of their abilities and achieve the Company's objectives.
Administration of the Plan
The Plan is currently administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). Such committee, acting as the plan administrator, has full authority to interpret the provisions of the Plan, consistent with qualification of the Plan as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Eligibility to Receive Awards
Key employees of the Company and its affiliates are eligible to participate in the Plan. Participation in the Plan by any particular key employee is determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion. In selecting participants for the Plan, the Compensation Committee will choose employees of the Company and its affiliates who are likely to have a significant impact on Company performance.
Target Awards and Performance Goals
For each performance period, the Compensation Committee will establish in writing: (1) target awards for each participant, (2) the performance goals which must be achieved in order for the participant to be paid a target award, and (3) the payout formula for determining the actual award paid to a participant. The payout formula will be based on a comparison of actual performance to the performance goals, provide for the payment of a participant's target award if the performance goals for a relevant performance period are achieved, and provide for an actual award that is greater or less than a participant's target award depending upon the extent to which actual performance exceeds or falls below the performance goals.
Each participant's target award will be (1) expressed as a percentage of his or her base salary, (2) expressed as a percentage of an award pool established for the particular Plan year, or (3) a specified amount determined by the Compensation Committee based on target awards established by the Compensation Committee.
Base salary under the Plan means the participant's annual salary rate on the last day of the year or on the last day of the applicable fiscal year for any performance period, as determined by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee may determine in its sole discretion whether or not to establish an award pool for a particular Plan year.
The performance goals applicable to the participants may consist of one or more of the following measures: (a) annual revenue, (b) budget comparisons, (c) controllable profits, (d) Company earnings per share, (e) expense management, (f) improvements in capital structure, (g) net income, (h) net or gross sales, (i) operating income (pre- or post-tax), (j) profit margins, (k) operating or gross margin, (l) profitability of an identifiable business unit or product, (m) return on investments, (n) return on sales, (o) return on stockholders' equity, (p) total return to stockholders, (q) assets under management, (r) investment management performance, (s) mutual and other investment fund performance, (t) institutional account performance, (u) high net worth
 
and other separate account performance, (v) cash flow, operating cash flow, or cash flow or operating cash flow per share (before or after dividends), (w) price of the shares or any other publicly traded securities of the Company, (x) reduction in costs, (y) return on capital, including return on total capital or return on invested capital, (z) improvement in or attainment of expense levels or working capital levels, and (aa) performance of the Company relative to a peer group of companies and/or relevant indexes on any of the foregoing measures. The Compensation Committee may set performance goals which differ from participant to participant. For example, the Compensation Committee may choose performance goals which apply on either a corporate or business unit basis, as deemed appropriate in light of the participant's responsibilities.
Performance goals are calculated in accordance with GAAP, but excluding the effect of any change in accounting standards and any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring item, as determined by the Compensation Committee, occurring after the establishment of the performance goals applicable to the actual award intended to be performance-based compensation. Such adjustment will be made solely for the purpose of providing a consistent basis from period to period for the calculation of performance goals in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of a participant's rights with respect to an actual award intended to be performance-based compensation.
Determination of Actual Awards
After the end of each performance period, the Compensation Committee must certify in writing the extent to which the performance goals applicable to each participant were achieved or exceeded. The actual award (if any) for each participant will be determined by applying the formula to the level of actual performance which has been certified by the Compensation Committee. However, the Compensation Committee retains discretion to eliminate or reduce the actual award payable to any participant below that which would otherwise be payable under the applicable formula. In addition, no participant's actual award under the Plan may exceed $15 million for any twelve months in a performance period.
The Plan contains a continuous employment requirement. If a participant terminates employment with the Company for any reason after the end of the applicable performance period but prior to the award payment date, he or she will be entitled to the payment of the award for the year, provided, however, that the Compensation Committee may reduce (or eliminate) his or her actual award based on such considerations as the Compensation Committee deems appropriate. If a participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of the applicable performance period for any reason other than death, disability or retirement, the Compensation Committee will proportionately reduce (or eliminate) his or her actual award based on the date of termination and such other considerations as the Compensation Committee deems appropriate. If a participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of the applicable performance period due to death, disability or retirement, he or she will be entitled to the payment of the award for the year, provided, however, that the Compensation Committee may reduce (or eliminate) his or her actual award based on such considerations as the Compensation Committee deems appropriate.
 
Awards under the Plan are payable no later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year which includes the last day of the performance period. These awards are generally payable in cash; however, the Compensation Committee reserves the right to declare any award wholly or partially payable in an equivalent amount of Company stock (either fully vested or subject to vesting) issued under the Company's 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan or successor equity compensation plan.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
The Company's Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason, but in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, material amendments to the Plan are subject to stockholder approval. The Plan will also be submitted to stockholders for approval as necessary to enable it to continue to qualify as a performance-based compensation plan under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Assignability and Transferability
Awards under the Plan are not assignable or transferable by the participant, except by will or the laws of inheritance following a participant's death.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
1.1 . Franklin Resources, Inc. hereby establishes the Franklin Resources, Inc. 2004 Key Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is intended to increase stockholder value and the success of the Company by motivating key employees (a) to perform to the best of their abilities and (b) to achieve the Company's objectives. The Plan's goals are to be achieved by providing such key employees with incentive awards based on the achievement of goals relating to performance of the Company and its individual business units. The Plan is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m).
Purpose
1.2 . The Plan became effective as of December 11, 2004. As long as the Plan remains in effect, it shall be resubmitted to stockholders as necessary to enable the Plan to continue to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m).
Effective Date
The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:
2.1 "" means as to any Performance Period, the actual award (if any) payable to a Participant for the Performance Period. An Actual Award is determined by the Payout Formula for the Performance Period, as applicable, subject to the Committee's authority under Section 3.6 to reduce the award otherwise determined by the Payout Formula.
Actual Award
2.2 means the total dollars (if any) designated to fund Actual Awards payable for any Performance Period,
"Award Pool"
2.3 "" means as to any Performance Period, 100% of the Participant's annualized salary rate on the last day of each fiscal year or on the last day of the last applicable fiscal year for any Performance Period, as determined by the Committee. Such Base Salary shall be before both (a) deductions for taxes or benefits, and (b) deferrals of compensation pursuant to Company-sponsored plans.
Base Salary
2.4 means the person(s) or entity(ies) designated to receive payment of an Actual Award in the event of a Participant's death in accordance with Section 4.5 of the Plan. The Beneficiary designation shall be effective when it is submitted in writing to and received by the Company's human resources department during the Participant's lifetime on a Beneficiary Designation form provided by the Committee.The submission of a new Beneficiary Designation form shall cancel all prior Beneficiary designations.
"Beneficiary"
2.5 "" means the Company's Board of Directors.
Board
2.6 "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific Section of the Code shall include such Section, any valid regulation promulgated thereunder, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such Section or regulation.
Code
2.7 "" means the committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan. The Committee shall consist of no fewer than two members of the Board. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Each member of the Committee shall qualify as an "outside director" under Code Section 162(m). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of a Committee member to qualify as an "outside director" shall not invalidate the payment of any Actual Award under the Plan.
Committee
2.8 "" means Franklin Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
2.9 "" means as to any Performance Period; (a) the first day of the Performance Period, or (b) if later, the latest date possible which will not jeopardize the Plan's qualification as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m).
Determination Date
2.10 "" means a permanent and total disability determined in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory standards adopted by the Committee from time to time.
Disability
2.11 "" means as to any Participant for any Performance Period, fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) for each twelve (12) months in a Performance Period (proportionately adjusted for periods less than twelve (12) months). The Maximum Award is the maximum amount which may be paid to a Participant for any Performance Period.
Maximum Award
2.12 "" means as to any Performance Period, a key employee who has been selected by the Committee for participation in the Plan for that Performance Period.
Participant
2.13 "" means as to any Performance Period, the formula or payout matrix established by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.5, below, in order to determine the Actual Awards (if any) to be paid to Participants. The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant.
Payout Formula
2.14 "" means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant for a Performance Period. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant shall provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) annual revenue, (b) budget comparisons, (c) controllable profits, (d) Company earnings per share, (e) expense management, (f) improvements in capital structure, (g) net income, (h) net or gross sales, (i) operating income (pre- or post-tax), (j) profit margins, (k) operating or gross margin, (l) profitability of an identifiable business unit or product, (m) return on investments, (n) return on sales, (o) return on stockholders' equity, (p) total return to stockholders, (q) assets under management, (r) investment management performance, (s) mutual and other investment fund performance, (t) institutional account performance, (u) high net worth and other separate account performance, (v) cash flow, operating cash flow, or cash
Performance Goals
 
flow or operating cash flow per share (before or after dividends), (w) price of the shares or any other publicly traded securities of the Company, (x) reduction in costs, (y) return on capital, including return on total capital or return on invested capital, (z) improvement in or attainment of expense levels or working capital levels, and (aa) performance of the Company relative to a peer group of companies and/or relevant indexes on any of the foregoing measures. The Performance Goals may be applicable to the Company and/or any of its individual business units and may differ from Participant to Participant. In addition, the Performance Goals shall be calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but excluding the effect (whether positive or negative) of any change in accounting standards and any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring item, as determined by the Committee, occurring after the establishment of the Performance Goals applicable to the Actual Award intended to be performance-based compensation. Each such adjustment, if any, shall be made solely for the purpose of providing a consistent basis from period to period for the calculation of Performance Goals in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights with respect to an Actual Award intended to be performance-based compensation; provided, however, that certain categories or types of such adjustments can be specifically included (rather than excluded) at the time the Performance Goals are established if so determined by the Committee.
2.15 "" means any period as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Performance Period
2.16 means retirement from service to the Company after reaching age fifty-five (55) with at least ten (10) years of service to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, including service to any entity that is acquired by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
"Retirement"
2.17 "" means the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the Performance Period as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 3.4 and may be (a) expressed as a percentage of his or her Base Salary, (b) expressed as a percentage of the Award Pool, or (c) a specified amount determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 3.4.
Target Award
3.1 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall select the key employees who shall be Participants for any Performance Period. In selecting Participants, the Committee shall choose employees who are likely to have a significant impact on the performance of the Company. Participation in the Plan is in the sole discretion of the Committee, and on a Performance Period by Performance Period basis. Accordingly, an employee who is a Participant for a given Performance Period in no way is guaranteed or assured of being selected for participation in any subsequent Performance Period or Performance Periods.
Selection of Participants
3.2 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee may in its sole discretion establish an Award Pool, if any, for any Performance Period.
Determination of Award Pool
 
3.3 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish the Performance Goals for each Participant for the Performance Period. Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Performance Goals
3.4 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Target Award for each Participant. Each Participant's Target Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Target Awards
3.5 . On or prior to the Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Payout Formula or Formulae for purposes of determining the Actual Award (if any) payable to each Participant. Each Payout Formula shall (a) be in writing, (b) be based on a comparison of actual performance to the Performance Goals, (c) provide for the payment of a Participant's Target Award if the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are achieved, and (d) provide for an Actual Award greater than or less than the Participant's Target Award, depending upon the extent to which actual performance exceeds or falls below the Performance Goals. Notwithstanding the preceding, no participant's Actual Award under the Plan may exceed the Maximum Award.
Determination of Payout Formula or Formulae
3.6 After the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant for the Performance Period were achieved or exceeded. The Actual Award for each Participant shall be determined by applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance which has been certified by the Committee. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may eliminate or reduce the Actual Award payable to any Participant below that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula.
Determination of Actual Awards.
3.7 If a Participant terminates employment with the Company for any reason after the end of the applicable Performance Period but prior to the date the Actual Award for such Performance Period is paid, the Participant shall be entitled to the payment of the Actual Award for the Performance Period subject to reduction or elimination under Section 3.6 based on the circumstances surrounding such termination of employment.
Termination Prior to the Date the Actual Award for the Performance Period is Paid.
3.8 If a Participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of the applicable Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, the Committee shall reduce the Participant's Actual Award proportionately based on the date of termination (and subject to further reduction or elimination under Section 3.6 based on the circumstances surrounding such termination of employment).
Termination Prior to End of the Performance Period for Reasons other than Death, Disability or Retirement.
3.9 If a Participant terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of the applicable Performance Period due to death, Disability or Retirement, the Participant (or in the case of the Participant's death, the person who acquired the right to payment of the Actual Award pursuant to Section 4.5) shall be entitled to the payment of the Actual Award for the Performance Period subject to reduction or elimination under Section 3.6.
Termination Prior to the End of the Performance Period Due to Death, Disability or Retirement.
 
3.10 If a Participant is on a leave of absence at any time during a Performance Period, the Committee may reduce his or her Actual Award proportionately based on the duration of the leave of absence (and subject to further reduction or elimination under Section 3.6).
Leave of Absence.
4.1 . Each Actual Award that may become payable under the Plan shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant's claim of any right other than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be entitled.
Right to Receive Payment
4.2 . Payment of each Actual Award shall be made no later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year which includes the last day of the Performance Period during which the Award was earned.
Timing of Payment
4.3 . Each Actual Award normally shall be paid in cash (or its equivalent) in a single lump sum. However, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may declare any Actual Award, in whole or in part, payable in the form of a stock bonus granted under the Company's 2002 Universal Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan") or successor equity compensation plan (subject to the limit on the maximum number of shares that may be issued under the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan and any additional limitations on the maximum number of shares that may be awarded to any individual in any fiscal or calendar year under the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan, as applicable). The number of shares granted shall be determined by dividing the cash amount of the Actual Award by the fair market value of a share of Company common stock on the date that the cash payment otherwise would have been made. For this purpose, "fair market value" shall be defined as provided in the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan. Any shares issued pursuant to a stock bonus granted under the 2002 Plan or successor equity compensation plan may be either fully vested or subject to vesting.
Form of Payment
4.4 The Committee may establish one or more programs under the Plan to permit selected Participants the opportunity to elect to defer receipt of Actual Awards. The Committee may establish the election procedures, the timing of such elections, the mechanisms for payments of, and accrual of interest or other earnings, if any, on amounts so deferred, and such other terms, conditions, rules and procedures that the Committee deems advisable for the administration of any such deferral program.
Other Deferral of Actual Awards.
4.5 . If a Participant dies prior to the payment of an Actual Award earned by him or her for a prior Performance Period, the Actual Award shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary or if each person designated as a Beneficiary predeceases the Participant or dies prior to payment of an Actual Award, then the Committee shall direct the payment of such Actual Award to the Participant's estate.
Payment in the Event of Death
 
5.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
Committee is the Administrator
5.2 . The Committee shall have all discretion and authority necessary or appropriate to administer the Plan and to interpret the provisions of the Plan, consistent with qualification of the Plan as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m). Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration or application of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Committee Authority
5.3 . The Company shall withhold all applicable taxes from any payment, including any non-U.S., federal, state, and local taxes.
Tax Withholding
5.4 The Committee, in its sole discretion and on such terms and conditions as it may provide, may delegate all or part of its authority and powers under the Plan to one or more directors and/or officers of the Company; provided, however, that the Committee may delegate its authority and powers only to the extent consistent with applicable laws (including the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code) and the rules and regulations of the principal securities market on which the Company's securities are listed or qualified for trading.
Delegation by the Committee.
6.1 . A Participant shall have no right to assign any interest under this Plan. No award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution, or to the limited extent provided in Section 4.5. All rights with respect to an award granted to a Participant shall be available during his or her lifetime only to the Participant.
Nonassignability and Nontransferability
6.2 . The establishment and subsequent operation of the Plan, including eligibility as a Participant, shall not be construed as conferring any legal or other rights upon any Participant for the continuation of his or her employment for any Performance Period or any other period. Generally, employment with the Company is on an at will basis only. Except as may be provided in an employment contract with the Participant, the Company expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and without regard to when during a Performance Period such exercise occurs, to terminate any individual's employment without cause, and to treat him or her without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her as a Participant.
No Effect on Employment
 
6.3 . No member of the Committee or the Board, or any officer of the Company, shall be liable for any determination, decision or action made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any award under the Plan.
No Individual Liability
6.4 . If any provision of the Plan is found to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall not affect the other provisions of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision has been omitted. The provisions of the Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, with the exception of California's conflict of laws provisions.
Severability; Governing Law
6.5 . Requirements referring to employment with the Company or payment of awards may, in the Committee's discretion, be performed through the Company or any affiliate of the Company.
Affiliates of the Company
6.6 Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any award, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification.
7.1 . The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason; provided, however, that if and to the extent required to ensure the Plan's qualification under Code Section 162(m), any such amendment shall be subject to stockholder approval.
Amendment and Termination
 

Exhibit 10.2
The following table sets forth the current annual base salaries of the Named Executive Officers
1
of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") as of January 31, 2008.
 
The Named Executive Officers are also eligible to:
Incentive Compensation
 
 
 
Benefit Plans and Other Arrangements
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
The following information relates to certain performance incentive compensation for the Named Executive Officers of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") as of January 31, 2008.
1
This information was previously disclosed in the Company's proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders.
. With respect to potential incentive compensation for Gregory E. Johnson, the Company's Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") in fiscal year 2008, the Compensation Committee decided to continue its philosophy of linking the majority of the CEO's potential compensation to the achievement of specified performance measures by the Company. Similar to the structure of fiscal year 2007 incentive compensation, the Committee set performance goals based upon the Company's operating profit margin percentage and the combined average of the percentage growth of diluted earnings per share ("DEPS") and pre-tax operating income when compared to the previous year ("PTOI"). For the purposes of this incentive program, "operating profit margin" is generally defined as operating income divided by total operating revenues, and "pre-tax operating income" is generally defined as total operating revenue less total operating expenses determined on a consolidated basis. The performance targets and potential compensation set by the Committee are included below:
2008 CEO Incentive Compensation
 
As with previous performance awards, the Committee retains its authority and discretion to reduce the CEO's incentive based pay whether or not the Company achieves the financial performance goals set for it.
. During its review of Company performance and incentive compensation for fiscal year 2007, the Compensation Committee reaffirmed its belief that the Company's performance should not only be evaluated on an individual basis, but also in comparison to other companies in its industry. In order to incent the CEO to direct the Company to perform at a high level compared to other companies in its industry, the Committee determined that it was advisable to establish a supplemental long-term component to CEO compensation that was linked to such measures. The Committee has therefore established a new incentive program under which the Company's average performance over the three-year period from fiscal year 2008 through fiscal year 2010 would be compared to peer companies for the following three measures: (i) net sales growth of U.S. retail open ended funds, (ii) net sales growth of international retail open ended funds, and (iii) Company mutual fund investment performance. The CEO's total potential incentive compensation under these three measures is 24,639 shares of the Company's common stock, subject to meeting the specified performance goals described below.
Supplemental CEO Long-Term Incentive Compensation
 
Under each of the net sales growth measures the CEO has the potential to earn the following compensation if the Company's average performance at the end of fiscal year 2010 ranks within the following ranges when compared with its industry peer groups:
 
Under the fund performance measure, the Company's fund assets are evaluated on whether or not they fall within the top two quartiles of industry peer group fund asset rankings. More specifically if, at the end of fiscal year 2010, the percentage of the Company's fund assets that fall within the top two quartiles is within the following ranges, the CEO has the potential to earn the following compensation:
 
In evaluating performance with regard to each of these measures, the Company will use third-party information sources for industry peer group rankings. For Company mutual fund performance, data as reported by Morningstar, Lipper and MicroPal will be utilized. Peer data as provided by the Investment Company Institute will be used in evaluating U.S. sales flows, and Feri Rating & Research will be the data source for peer international sales flows.
. For fiscal year 2008, the Compensation Committee determined that a portion of the compensation of the named executive officers (excluding the CEO, the "Senior Executives") should also be directly linked to Company-wide performance measures.
2008 Senior Executive Incentive Compensation
The Committee found that while the business unit performance objectives set for individual Senior Executives were an important method in achieving improved overall Company performance, a more direct link between Company-wide performance and compensation would serve to ensure that such executives also remained attentive to the Company's overall performance. The Committee therefore established performance targets (under the Company's amended 2004 Key Executive Incentive Plan) for each Senior Executive that are identical to the CEO's. These financial performance goals and key strategic objectives establish the maximum amount of funding,
 
and also the maximum possible payout for the four Senior Executives for the fiscal year under this plan. The funding opportunity based on performance measures are as outlined below:
 
The maximum dollar amount of the potential incentive compensation payable to each Senior Executive under each of these performance targets is indicated below:
 
 


