FILE:BEN/BEN-8K-20100322170811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 16, 2010, the Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc. (the "Company") approved the appointment of Jennifer J. Bolt as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, effective as of such date. Ms. Bolt serves as the principal operating officer of the Company. Ms. Bolt, age 45, has served as Executive Vice PresidentOperations and Technology of the Company since December 2005. Ms. Bolt was formerly Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Company from May 2003 to December 2005. Ms. Bolt also has been an officer or director of certain subsidiaries of the Company for more than the past five years. Since April 2004, Ms. Bolt has also served as a director of Keynote Systems, Inc., a public technology corporation.
As of March 16, 2010, Ms. Bolt held certain loans issued by Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Franklin Bank"). Such loan transactions were made or entered into in the ordinary course of business by Franklin Bank, and were made or provided on substantially the same terms, including fees, interest rates and collateral, that prevailed at the time for comparable loan transactions with other third parties in arms-length relationships and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other unfavorable features.
Ms. Bolt is the daughter of Charles B. Johnson, the niece of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter M. Sacerdote and the sister of Gregory E. Johnson. Charles B. Johnson is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and a director of the Company, Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. is Vice Chairman and a director of the Company, Peter M. Sacerdote is a director of the Company, and Gregory E. Johnson is the President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


